PREFACE
      Hey there! My name is Oskar Potocki and I'm a project lead on the Vanilla 
Expanded mod series. I would like to use this short preface to tell you how the series 
came to being, and why I think the best is yet to come.
      I found RimWorld by accident, by simply watching my favourite youtuber who 
decided it's the right time to play RimWorld. I was immediately captivated by the 
story generator aspect of the game, and I fell in love with the simple but appealing 
art style of it. I used to mod Don't Starve Together back in the day, and my goal was 
always to mimic the vanilla art style - as soon as I saw RimWorld, I figured  I could 
try just that.
      I had put off starting modding for a while, but after several playthroughs that 
ended in disaster, I noticed cracks in other mods I was using - something was too 
strong, something didn't look quite right, or simply something was missing.  I didn't 
know how to patch things, so I did the only thing I could do: I started doing art. It took 
a while to learn to copy vanilla art style - I initially used Adobe Photoshop, but it 
quickly felt like I'm trying to use a hammer to chop wood. I pull ed out my dusty 
Adobe Illustrator and it felt just right: it clicked, and I started drawing.
      I was playing Apex: Legends at the time, and I figured that it would be great if 
someone did Apex weapons in RimWorld artstyle - sort of like a crossover event! It 
was incredibly fun trying to replicate RimWorld graphics - for example making some 
Apex weapons use the charge weapon style. Weapon mods fortunately are relatively 
easy to do - I learned to edit vanilla xml to make them myself. For the more complex 
mechanics however, I collaborated with other programmers, sort of a favor for a 
favor deal.
      I figured why stop there, and I started drawing different animals - I always 
wanted to make a little farm in RimWorld, but cows, chickens and pigs were not 
enough for me. I then created the livestock animal pack, and I got addicted to 
making RimWorld art. Instead of seeking help, I proceeded with more projects - 
Spartan Foundry, Furniture Expanded and so on.
      Eventually, I was contacted by Tynan Sylvester to join the RimWorld team. 
Not going to lie here: my first thought was it's a scam, so I actually ignored the 
Steam message I received. I mean, come on, if you receive a message from 
someone simply called 'Tynan Sylvester', you rarely assume it's The Tynan 
Sylvester. After we talked, I signed the contract and became a RimWorld graphic 
artist, and I've been working with Ludeon ever since - I worked on Royalty DLC and 
Ideology DLC.
      One of the most important things for me during my career at Ludeon Studios 
was that I am still allowed to do modding. Over time, the team started growing and 
we have been releasing more ambitious mods. I am surrounded by incredibly 
talented people who want to spread joy through RimWorld mods. At some point, we 
decided that we should not only develop mods, but also help other modders develop 
theirs - thus, we set out to create Vanilla Expanded Framework - a big code library 
that us and other modders can use to create even better mods, with minimal effort!
      With so many mods released, it's easy to lose track of what the universe of 
RimWorld has to offer. There is, however, very little information in existing lore 
sources - lore primer isn't too long, and descriptions and backstories provide very 
little context into the world. Linden, our main writer, and I decided to start a little 
project. Our main focus was writing some lore and backstory for various mods. As 
anything we worked on, it quickly became much bigger than that. That's why we 
decided to create a lore book - a digital compendium of RimWorld lore, with 
explanations not just for vanilla things, but also those added in Vanilla Expanded 
mods. It's a book we can always go back to, to get inspiration for future mods.
      We searched and found all scraps of lore, from item descriptions, lore primer 
and backstories to hints of lore in the code. We used all that information to create an 
initial book draft - and then we did what we do best: we expanded it. It was quite 
challenging to make sure it all still feels like RimWorld, but I believe we have 
expanded the vision of Tynan Sylvester with our own twist.
      This book is a result of hundreds of hours of hard work - both art and writing-
wise. I am sure that reading it will give you an idea of what is yet to come to 
RimWorld from the Vanilla Expanded team - we made sure to lay foundations for 
future mods here. I'd like to thank you kindly for your support - Vanilla Expanded 
wouldn't be the same without all the generous people who cheered us along the 
way. I hope we can keep making your day better, and we are not slowing down, hell, 
we're just getting started.
      Punch it. 