      TECHNOLOGY
      There are uncountable new technologies in this universe, but several key 
technologies stand out as having had the strongest consistent impact on the shape 
of mankind's life in the Milky Way.
      Midworld Technologies
      All technology used in Earth's history up to the 21st century is still relevant in 
the galaxy. Since there are planets between the stone age and ultratech, everything 
from bows and arrows to nuclear reactors are in use simultaneously, and often in the 
same solar system.
      Adventurers visiting junk worlds and remote colonies can often find 
themselves under mortar fire, or find 20th century assault rifles in the old concrete 
structures. In many places life is just the same as it is in the 21st century, and others 
the old is mixed with new advancements.
      Genetic Engineering
      Genetic engineering is relatively easy on many planets and has been used for 
everything from creating xeno human super-soldiers to perfect mates to talking dogs, 
chemical-refining animals, and air-spewing terraformer algae. The process can be 
described as the transfer of DNA from one organism to another using biotechnology. 
The organism receiving the DNA is said to be genetically modified (GM).
      Organisms are genetically modified in order to give them a combination of 
genes (genotype) that will result in them having desirable physical characteristics 
(phenotype). Often the desirable characteristic is simply the ability to produce large 
quantities of a useful protein. Other times the desirable characteristic is to create a 
hulking insectoid with claws that can rip plasteel.
      Genetic engineering started before humanity even left Earth. Bacterial cells 
were genetically modified to produce human insulin, which was then purified and 
supplied to diabetics. 
      The adaptive and engineering processes that have branched baseline 
humanity into these uncounted variations have also applied to flora and fauna. 
Wherever humanity colonized, they always brought their own ecosystems with them. 
These creatures subsequently adapt to their new conditions of moisture, chemistry, 
light levels, gravity, temperature, and seasonal cycles. In addition, plants and 
animals have been bred and engineered for countless purposes across the galaxy.
      One consistent class of modification that can be seen applied to a wide 
variety of creatures is intelligence enhancement. Dogs, pigs, monkeys, gorillas, 
whales, dolphins, and elephants have all been engineered and combined with 
human DNA to produce smarter variations. Some variants are created as pets. 
Others are made to do work too dangerous or unpleasant for humans, and beyond 
the capacities of a culture's AI. Some are created as warriors and weapons - hyper-
intelligent guard dog, a bird scout that can speak what is sees, a bomb-carrying 
suicide monkey. These brain modifications are often paired with physical changes - 
fingers so a pig can manipulate tools, or a humanlike larynx and mouth so a dog can 
talk.
      Such enhanced animals are collectively classified by their degree of brain 
power and called by a specific prefix like so:
      Opti-
      Indicates enhanced but still sub-human intelligence. Optiani-mals can usually 
use tools, form long-term goals and organize into primitive social groups, but can't 
speak more than a few words, read, or think abstractly.
      
      Many times, these modified animals have, during a regressive catastrophe, 
been forced into interbreeding with an unmodified animal population, producing 
descendants of widely varying levels of intelligence. In a few cases, transanimals 
have become the dominant species on a planet, eliminating or enslaving the 
remaining humans.
      
      Trans-
      Indicates intelligence in the human range. Transanimals can read, use tools, 
form teams, hold conversations, and think about complex ideas. 
      Other than intelligence enhancement, humanity has applied a wide variety of 
modifications to its pets, crops, livestock, and houseplants. Sometimes these new 
species become part of the natural environment and thereafter evolve further into a 
new kind of organism. Some confirmed examples are:
      Boomalope
      Engineered for chemicals production, the boomalope grows a large sac of 
volatile chemicals on its back. Though it is weak and fragile for its size, other animals 
have learned to avoid it because of the huge explosion it produces when it dies. It 
can be milked to produce chemfuel... very carefully.
      Boomrat
      A bioengineered rat that develops an incendiary chemical compound in its 
body which explodes upon its death. Originally engineered as a weapon, these 
creatures are now common in the wild on some planets where wars took place long 
ago.
      Boomfruit
      Probably engineered as a novelty, this explosive plant evolved to be larger 
and more dangerous until it became the equivalent of a hand grenade, complete with 
murderous shrapnel. Its explosiveness dissuades predators. After that, people 
learned to farm the plant, using its explosive fruit  as a weapon.
      Whip cactus
      Created as part of a military defense system, the Whip Cactus lashes out and 
strikes nearby creatures.
      Terraforming plants
      Many plants - especially desert varieties - have been mod-ified into 
terraforming versions that emit far more oxygen than the original species during 
photosynthesis. These oxy-genic flora, along with modified algae and fungi, are 
geneti-cally modified to transform the planet's atmosphere so it can support human 
life. Once the process is complete, they are organically programmed to die in 
habitable environments in order to prevent them from altering conditions further. 
Very few plants manage to adapt to their new environment and thrive in a new way, 
largely due to the interference of an external and mysterious influence.
      Genetically-engineered crops
      Even though most plants are genetically engineered to be faster to produce to 
some extent, some crops are significantly  changed enough that a 21st-century 
farmer might not understand their new counterparts, primarily the sugarcane and 
wheat plants. 
      Rocketrees
      These trees are capable of synthesizing rocket fuel in their cores over many 
years. They were created as a fuel source and are extremely dangerous in a fire.
      
      Wheat found in most post-genetically engineered communities has a 
completely different grain structure. The endosperm of the wheat grain is altered to 
become pure, powdered flour ready to use in cooking if gently squished, saving time 
and the need to use a windmill.
      
      Just like the modified wheat plant, the common sugarcane was engineered to 
yield easy-to-use sugar, perfect right from harvest. The outside of the sugarcane 
plant is the same as its ancestor, but the interior has been converted into a biological 
sugar factory while stunting its ability to reproduce, requiring human assistance to 
spread its seed and pollen.
      
      Transbirds
      Much in a similar way to how humans raised pigeons to be aesthetically 
pleasing and divergent - only to abandon them and declare them as pests - certain 
breeds of birds have been raised for their intelligence and companionship. Some 
21st century examples of these are parrots that mimic human speech and crows that 
have intelligence similar to human children. Through selective breeding - and a 
generous helping of genetic engineering - the Transbird was brought forth, a 
magnificently colourful and cautiously intelligent avian creature capable of human 
speech. Their shrewd intellect and fierce loyalty has resulted in many of them 
commanding their own trade ships composed of human and robotic crewmembers.
      Xenohumans
      The term "xenohuman" applies to a human whose genome deviates largely 
from the baseline Terra format. Typically these are people who have been born to 
parents with modified genomes, whether they be simple cosmetic changes or ones 
that were made to facilitate easier habitation on a particular planet's climate. Thanks 
to advances in medical technology, these changes are largely uncomplicated 
procedures. They are however irreversible and can cause some stigma in "pure 
bloods".
      Artificial Meat
      Artificial meat, also known as cultured or fake meat is an amalgamation of 
synthesized proteins, cultivated fungi and  common plants, or lab-grown animal 
muscle and fat cells intended to taste and feel as close to ground meat as possible, 
with varying success across the timeline of humanity. First created as a proof-of-
concept in the midworld ages of the Sol system, it was later adapted to factory 
production for usage in packaged survival meals and sent to colonies and space 
stations due to the lack of a sustainable environment to keep livestock.
      Even though artificial meat was technically a success, the time and cost to 
produce it meant that it would never replace traditional ranching and cattle-raising 
methods, save for worlds that didn't have the capability to raise livestock.
      Chocolate
      Chocolate is one of the few dessert-type foods that practically everyone can 
agree is delicious... except for the people who harvest cocoa and have never tasted 
chocolate before, but let's not focus on that. The seeds of the cocoa tree are 
harvested and then ground together with a mixture of sugar and vanilla to produce 
the typical chocolate bar. In the 21st century, Terra was experiencing the potential 
devastation of cocoa production to the ravages of climate change, shrinking the very 
limited biome where the trees could grow. Naturally, this looming lack of chocolate 
was unacceptable.
      Thus, numerous farmers and chocolate enthusiasts were gripped in a fervour 
to cultivate a new form of plant through genetic modification and selective breeding. 
The goal was to create a tree that not only could grow in almost any climate, but 
would also skip the tedious process of having to harvest and process the cocoa 
along with sugarcane and vanilla beans. The results were not completely ideal but 
certainly still sur-prising, even to those cultivating them. The process was hurried 
along when numerous corporations in the food industry realised they could actually 
make more money out of this new plant than the traditional method.
      Through the process of genetic modification, the gooey cocoa butter within 
the fruit became gradually sweeter with hints of vanilla and the tree itself became 
more compact for easier harvesting. However, these initial results still required the 
fruits to be opened and the insides mixed together, and the trees themselves still had 
to be kept in tropical conditions or they would wilt easily.
      Thanks to the efforts of the corporations, they patented a version of this cocoa 
tree that could not only grow in non-tropical environments but also created 
rectangular fruits. Within the fruits themselves, the husk formed a grid mold that the 
seeds grew into. Once past a certain maturity level, these seeds bloomed within the 
fruit to form squares of cocoa, sugar and vanilla mixed together. Once harvested , 
the shell of the fruit tore away as easily as wrapping paper and the premade 
chocolate was ready for eating in easily-divisible squares.
      Mindwiping and mental reprogramming
      A continuation of well-known top-secret project MKUltra, the concept of 
mentally controlling people never really faded from the imaginations of covert 
agencies. On planets with high enough population densities, such as urbworlds, 
human bodies are seen as an almost natural resource. Certain unsavory criminal 
elements have used numerous chemicals and neural implants to turn random victims 
into mindless drones for organ harvesting or into completely loyal couriers that will 
commit suicide upon capture. Naturally local governments declared these 
unsanctioned acts illegal and punishable mental rehabilitation, or Body Confiscation.
      Body confiscation
      Criminals convicted of committing "illegal cerebral conversion activity" - or 
mind crimes - are typically given a sentence of body confiscation. Their free will 
removed, they will find service in labour camps, sanitation facilities or military 
service. Prolific propaganda has ensured that free-minded citizens don't object, 
because the government assures them that such punishments only happen to those 
guilty of similar acts.
      Autocycle
      Autocycles are defined as automotive vehicles with fewer than four wheels 
and equipped with both a steering wheel and seating that does not require the 
operator to straddle or sit astride. Requiring less space and energy to ride, these 
two-seat three-wheelers became popular among the working class looking to save 
money and couldn't rely on public transportation. Their popularity spiked when gas 
prices surged and the cost of electricity continued to decline thanks to prevalent 
renewable energy subsidies. It has become the most common mode of personal 
transportation in the midworlds.
      Netcast
      As humanity expanded through space and real-time communication became 
possible with people residing on other planets, the network of communication 
became officially known as the Net. Freely accessible by all, it became the method of 
consuming media. For those travelling to and from work, engaged in hobbies or just 
wanting to relax, netcasts were one of the most popular outlets for audio-only 
content. In fact, there is so much material available that some people spend so much 
time trying to find something interesting that they never actually end up listening to 
anything for longer than a few minutes.
      Vidtube
      Similar in fashion to how netcasts were for audio media, Vidtube was an 
incredibly popular video sharing service. Very popular Vidtube personalities - known 
as Vidtube stars or Vidtubers - managed to earn a living through only videos they 
uploaded through the associated advertisement revenue. Some of the biggest 
personalities were so beloved that they could commit completely abhorrent acts and 
yet still their fans continued to love and defend them. Numerous people have cited 
Vidtube as the reason humanity is being held back as a species, usually through 
comments or videos uploaded to Vidtube.
      Holography
      The concept of an interactive medium that is completely virtual whilst also 
being interactive has always been incredibly popular, often cited as definite proof 
that "the future is here". The roll-out of holography - interactive holograms - received 
mixed reception, largely due to everyone having their own opinion on what 
interactive holograms should be.
      
      Using special tables as a medium, these holograms are projected into 3D 
space and can be interacted with or without specialised equipment - such as light 
pens that can also be used to create handwritten holograms. 
      
      Holography proved incredibly popular in STEM occupations and eventually 
led to being the primary way humans and AI could communicate.
      Some AIs even choose to appear in a non-intimidating manner using warm 
colours and - for 
      some reason - cat ears. There have been reports of some holography users 
taking their obsession with holographic AIs slightly too far, usually filed by the AIs 
themselves in tones of discomfort or concern.
      
      Virtual Reality
      Development of virtual reality has had somewhat of a rocky history. Initially 
this was due to technological limitations, but as this improved the issue turned to 
methods of interaction. Most VR media try to not appear so realistic that they blow 
past the Uncanny Valley, but the primary limitation is that there is only so much 
immersion that can be achieved with interactive controllers.
      One company decided to pioneer an entirely new method by creating direct 
uplink sockets that connect to the base of the brain; this was generally viewed as 
both revolutionary and deeply concerning. However, most people who consumed  
VR media didn't care and quickly became addicts of these immersive simulations. 
There is also the minor issue that improperly unplugging can result in brain 
vegetation or real and virtual personalities merging, but this is never publicly 
announced and can only be found in fine print for legal purposes.
      Virtual reality saw an incredible surge of interest due to its ability in offering 
interactive and immersive simulations, and additional safety features were included 
in special VR pods used to raise children in virtual classrooms or even teach 
professions in a completely safe environment. The training program functionality was 
immensely popular for astrominers who could be immersively educated in what it 
was like to work in zero-G environments.
      Synthread
      The term 'synthread' refers to a wide range of consum-er-grade space-age 
textiles that have become synonymous with human civilization. Synthread is so 
ubiquitous among human civilization that garments made from the stuff can be found 
lightyears away from the advanced core worlds, even on the most far flung 
rimworlds.
      Synthread itself is never anything more than average in all aspects without 
being exceptional in any way save for its commonality. This is because its 
manufacturers, varied and disparate as they may be, share one common goal: 
profits. This has led to a sort of convergent evolution in synthread's characteristics. 
All varieties of synthread are carefully tailored to be desirable to all markets ranging 
from primitive tribals to urbworld wage slaves, at which point every other possible 
expense is spared in order to fatten the wallets of the corporations that peddle 
synthread across known civilization. The secrets behind synthread's manufacture 
have nothing to do with better fulfilling human needs; instead, they fixate on how to 
shave just a few pennies more from the manufacturing process while delivering a 
product indistinguishable from a competitor's, ensuring that some glitterworld mogul 
can afford three orbital yachts instead of merely two for the coming high-society gala.
      Hyperweave
      When drawing up the schematics for engineering projects, a certain amount of 
tolerance is taken into consideration as not all material is completely similar to one 
another. Even the difference of a single degree or a slight delay can cause a change, 
however minute they may be. Therefore, imagine how much material could be saved 
if - over thousands and millions of manufactured parts - it was all exactly the same 
with absolutely no margin of error. This has been little more than a pipedream for the 
space industry.
      With the development of genetic engineering and molecularsized mechanites, 
this fantasy became increasingly feasible, although incredibly expensive. An influx of 
financial investments from wealthy investors looking for the latest in fashionable 
material led to some bizarrely elaborate attempts of molecular fabrication. 
Genetically-engineered silkworms were bred to create very beautiful but delicate 
fabric, but resulted in an insect bigger than the average human, leading to lukewarm 
reception.
      Interested military organisations funded companies using mechanites capable 
of fabrication at the molecular level. To protect their investments, aggressive 
patenting, extensive lawsuits and misleadingly elaborate manufacturing 
specifications were employed. As a result, the initial companies practically have a 
monopoly on the market, preventing anything further being developed using these 
techniques.
      The resulting fabric - dubbed Hyperweave - became immensely popular with 
the military, the space industry and the ludicrously wealthy. Although it is as soft and 
flexible as silk, it becomes as tough as plasteel under high pressure whilst still being 
easy to use in making apparel. It also seemingly glitters as it moves and many in the 
fashion industry claim that one can see every shade of blue within the fabric if one 
truly appreciates it. This statement is encouraged by celebrities and the ultra-wealthy 
but is largely accepted by those who can't afford the material to be complete and 
utter tripe.
      Plasteel
      Plasteel is an advanced composite material that combines the traits of 
ceramics, alloys and polymers, making it incredibly easy to use but almost 
impossible to replicate without knowing the base ingredients and their ratios. The 
original application of plasteel was for military use, specifically an improved form of 
body armor made to keep up with the ever technologically-advancing war machine. 
As production was increased - which allowed the construction of entire armoured 
vessels composed of plasteel - it was realized that it could replace the function of 
Steel in structures, albeit at a considerably higher cost and lower availability.
      The addition of ceramic elements has given Plasteel high hardness and 
compressive strength, along with a lower density and almost none of the brittleness. 
On the other side, polymer elements give it high toughness and impact strength, also 
becoming highly resistant to corrosion, low moisture absorption, very low friction 
coefficient and high resistance to abrasion. In short, it is almost superior to Steel in 
every single way - in some cases exceptionally so - except it is considerably harder 
to work with and is much rarer.
      
      Plasteel
      Advanced spacer tech structural material. Plasteel is extremely strong due to 
its unique molecular structure. 