
      EMPIRE
      The Empire, or what people are probably used to by now - the Shattered 
Empire, is a high tech society of refugees utilising a strict feudal system of ranks. At 
some point, the Empire spanned the entirety of their home planet, Sophiamunda, 
and exploited multiple planetary bodies of their home system. While the empire 
lasted for many centuries, such an amount of time also caused it to evolve, and not 
in a good way. With decades passing by, bigotry and paranoia began to get more 
intense, with rivalry between the lords bleeding into the political scene. When the 
Empire was on the edge due to the pressure within, they were also attacked by a 
force from outside. Not much is known about who controlled the mechanoids that 
shattered the Empire, but city after city, Imperial nobility saw their empire crumble. 
The few that remained - and certainly not the bravest, prime example of their nation, 
escaped on dusty old ships.
      Despite being shattered and nowhere near their former glory, the Imperial 
technology makes them an incredibly resilient adversary. Their goal out in the new 
rimworlds is to rebuild what was once theirs.
      Culture
      Sophian culture has remained unchanged for thousands of years, which has 
undoubtedly contributed to the stability of the Empire. Each and every single 
member of society had strict and clear roles, divided by social classes from which it 
was extremely difficult to escape. In fact, the only real way to advance in society was 
to take the place of someone else who had fallen. While this usually only happened 
from social blunders, death through combat or lack of clear lines of succession could 
occur.
      This was generally not an issue as all Sophian citizens were instilled with a 
sense of collective duty, and what was good for the whole was good for them as 
well. Everyone had their role to play and should someone's grandparents have 
served as a majordomo, then they would be taught how to be a majordomo from 
their family. To wit, this familial pride and honour culled the vast majority of attempts 
to be different or stray from their destiny, as anyone who brought shame to their 
family found themselves and their children cast out as pariahs with very little hope of 
working their way back into their family's good graces.
      Religion
      Sophiamunda had a higher than average exposure to psychic effects from an 
archotech engine, including many anima trees and an unusually high rate of Eltex 
occurrence. Historians posit the direct influence of an archotech for an unknown 
reason, which in turn caused the inevitable mechanoid invasion either launched by 
interested parties trying to recover the technology for themselves or rogue AI that 
was wanting to evolve.
      Regardless of intention, the influencing presence of an archotech could also 
have been responsible for the higher atmospheric pressure and gravity, affecting 
people's lives in all sorts of strange and mysterious ways. While most technology 
related to psycasting was examined and developed during the early days of the 
Empire, their approach to it was the same as most technology: if it ain't broke, don't 
fix it. Thus numerous pieces of technology, such as computer servers or power 
plants, had extremely complicated rituals attached to them in order to get them to 
function. No one was exactly sure which parts of these rituals were necessary in 
order to get them to function but they knew that if they weren't performed in their 
entirety that something would fail.
      These rituals were composed of numerous technicians and a single priest 
performing a ritualistic ceremony involving a thurible filled with specific types of 
incense depending on the ceremony being performed. Upon examination by external 
forces, it was determined that each part of these rituals had served some function at 
some point but had been blown out of proportion. For example, those particular kinds 
of incense used in the ritual to start a fusion reactor were good at paralysing or 
warding off a particular kind of flying beetle that feasted off of electricity. Since the 
incense had to be lit for a certain amount of time before it took effect the technicians 
devised a song that lasted that period of time, gradually becoming a chant and hymn 
over the centuries.
      Because of all of these important - but poorly-understood - rituals each House 
had a cadre of priests that not only functioned in a political capacity but were also 
expected to serve alongside any engineers that tried to replicate old pieces of 
technology. Since there was no separation of church and state, religion had 
effectively saturated the entirety of the Empire's educational system, only teaching 
the citizens what their machines did without delving into why or how. 
      
      High Senate Gathering
      High Senate Gatherings were held in the Senate Hall, with the Emperor sitting 
on the highest and grandest dais in the centre of the room. High Stellarchs were 
seated nearby on levels lower than the Emperor's dais, while "ordinary" stellarchs 
were just a metre or two above the floor. Stellarchs were allowed to invite only one 
consul onto the floor, but a High Stellarch could have two. With the exception of 
direct heirs and bodyguards, no one else was allowed in the Hall. In order to include 
the lesser nobles, the meetings were recorded and relayed outside of the Hall. Each 
dais had their own high-ranking House priest as a consul, but sometimes as part of 
the stellarch's bodyguard retinue if they could not be present. It was considered a 
great honour for a middle-ranking priest to be part of this Gathering, and an essential 
part of their career should they ever wish to become abestower.
      Imperial Church
      To this day, the religion of the Empire is primarily monotheistic and contains 
numerous subfactions that have their own distinct specialty. The anti-heresy school 
of inquisitors not only ensures that no branches of belief develop and destabilise 
their society, they are in charge of hunting down any possible defectors that might try 
and take their technology to an unapproved foreign entity, including their precious 
psylink neuroformers whose manufacturing process will continue to remain a closely 
guarded secret. While divergent thought is thoroughly weeded out, existing, alternate 
beliefs are encouraged. While belief in the Emperor is absolute, not everyone prays 
directly to the Throne; rather they pray to smaller gods who serve the Emperor in 
their many forms.
      Each lesser god has a place in different parts of society. The god of 
agriculture, for example, blesses the crops and creates favourable weather for the 
farmers. The farmers in turn are taught by agriculture priests the proper rituals to 
keep their machines and farmland in a manner which pleases Him, as well as 
altering their bounties of crops to suit the needs and trends of the aristocracy. Similar 
in manner, starships are bound to the Houses and have been in service for many 
centuries using the same shackled personae AI who have adopted the personalities 
of the former figureheads of their respective House. Each ship is a place of worship 
and dedication, housing a unique branch of priests and technicians who are taught 
by their predecessors how to manage and maintain these holy vessels in the same 
fashion when they first launched.
      Personae AI and archotechs are viewed with cautious reverence, as they both 
form the fundamental structure on which Sophian society thrives. The former are 
used in their ancient starships that carry them throughout space. Some of them are 
thousands of years old and held in ritualistic reverence amongst the priests and the 
technicians, as without them there would be no interstellar empire. The latter, while 
poorly understood simply due to their nature, are essential to the Empire's 
psycasting techniques and rightfully inspire dread, in turn forming a sort of reverence 
which is never openly demonstrated for fear of drawing unwanted attention from 
these higher forms of intelligence.
      Art
      During the beginning of the Empire's founding culture and art was practically 
the way the Emperor managed to overcome all of his opposition. While there were 
military campaigns, the Emperor believed that if people did not believe in the same 
things that he believed in, they would never be won over and would forever be mortal 
enemies. So it was that his fashion style, sculpting methods, servant's wardrobes, 
pre-ferred pets, blends of fabric and colour palette were exported to other countries. 
His immense popularity overtook even those of local kings and warlords, who 
became infatuated with his haute couture. All of these fabricated and mass-produced 
forms of artistic vision became the basis for the different Houses that eventually bent 
the knee to Imperial rule, with the Imperial House forming the absolute inviolable 
pinnacle of culture.
      What eventually contributed to the regression of the Empire was that due to 
the sacrosanct nature of Imperial culture, any attempts at changing or improving on 
designs were considered a massive faux pas. Imperial style was already perfected 
and one couldn't improve upon perfection. Even bored nobles with excessive wealth 
who attempted to try new forms of art ended up abandoning it because of their 
limited exposure to different ideas. This overall lack of creativity bled over from 
religion and into technology and education, as people were taught what to think but 
critical thinking was something best left to the Emperor and the High Stellarchs.
      
      Hierarchy
      Even now, there is a clear and present hierarchy which represents any 
individual's degree of separation from the Emperor and the Emperor Regent thanks 
to the strict and rigid castes of the Empire. Below Him are the stellarchs as the 
heads of their Houses, who themselves have a distinct informal rank called High 
Stellarch - those from the oldest and most powerful Houses. The priests of the 
Imperial Church are next in line of importance, followed by the priests of the various 
Houses descending based on their relative importance. 
      The only exception to this are the bastard children of nobles and ownerless 
thralls who are taught by the celibate priests to ensure their numbers remain steady, 
since they cannot hold the ears of nobles without succeeding in rank.
      Next are the nobles of the Houses. While they are organised by their ranks 
and status amongst each other, it can vary depending on that particular House's 
traditions. One such House that values military proficiency above all would have their 
generals and commanders bear high importance while another that values industrial 
output would instead idolise their students of logistics and technicians. The overall 
complicated nature of these rankings further reinforces their difference from those 
outside of nobility and requires significant education to avoid embarrassing oneself 
at a social gathering amongst their peers. What one can always be assured of is that 
the majordomos are always highly regarded for their capability in running a tight 
household, most of whom also receive military training as part of their upbringing to 
ensure their masters' security. 
      
      Smaller Houses, or those who have lost their line of majordomos, can seek 
outside aid in the form of executors, who can be officially integrated into the House if 
their performance is exemplary.
       
      The absolute lowest ranks of the Houses are the servants, those that operate 
in the kitchens, clean the hallways, entertain guests, launder the bedsheets, run their 
farms and carry messages. While they are the unseen force that keeps their House 
functioning, they are still officially part of the House. Although they are almost seen 
as property, they can be assured that their family will benefit from their protection 
even long after they die. Even the lowliest servant of a noble House is above 
reproach compared to a non-House member and can generally do whatever is 
required to ensure things continue to run smoothly. Below them are the underclass 
which consists of those who legally don't really exist. Largely consisting of the 
families of those nobles that had been banished from their ancient Houses, their only 
official interaction is with the priests handing out charity who are also looking out for 
any promising individuals who could benefit the Empire in different ways, whether it 
be willingly or not.
      Economy
      To date, there isn't much of an economy in the Empire as most of it functions 
off of a bartering system and exchange of services. As the vast majority of wealth 
and resources are in the hands of the Houses and have been for centuries, those 
lower down the caste system serve those further up the hierarchy with their skills. In 
return, their position offers many benefits and securities relating to their position, with 
each higher rank offering exponentially more than the previous ones. There is little 
need for an enforcement system as such exchanges require extremely complex, 
almost arcane contract negotiations with a priest present to ensure both parties 
consent. Should one party later neglect their promises, the fallout would result in 
them losing all of their benefits, as someone who doesn't keep their word can't be 
trusted to do anything.
      Houses
      The Houses of the Empire represent the largest and most important families 
dating back to their founding thousands of years ago. Each particular House has 
their own speciality and line of nobility that represents a clear line of succession, with 
the Emperor's Imperial House being the largest and most important. In fact, before 
the Calamity at Sophiamunda, the House of the Emperor's military might was equal 
to that of all the other Houses combined. However, it still proved incompetent against 
the mechanoid menace thanks to incompatible military doctrines. Before that event, 
each House was an essential part of running the Empire as a whole, occupying vast 
swathes of imperial territory which included more than their homeworld. While a 
single planet could have the presence of multiple Houses, the greatest of those 
Houses were responsible for maintaining order as all were eager to earn the favour 
of the Emperor through intrigue and political machinations. This was encouraged by 
the Imperial House in order to prevent one single House from amassing too much 
power.
      While the greatest of those Houses had a long and cherished history, there 
were some smaller Houses that managed to establish a foothold on the political 
stage, usually through marriage and succession laws. Each House had territory 
officially ordained by the Emperor himself and in turn were required to uphold 
imperial law on their territories and field their own standing armies. Lines of 
succession were incredibly strict in order to prevent complications and it was socially 
acceptable to have up to three children, with the youngest being sent to study under 
the Imperial Church before returning as a high ranking priest or even a bestower, 
bringing the House great honour and prestige. While bastard children were not 
unheard of, they generated rumours about the competence of leadership as 
undesirable children were typically aborted or prevented through medicine.
      Guilds
      Guilds were unofficially the only way that those unaffiliated with the Houses 
could obtain political power, and they were employed through the Houses that 
required specialised services. An example of this was the Guild of Messengers who 
would discreetly hand deliver messages to clients or the Guild of Assassins who 
offered a non-House alternative for espionage and murder via members who had 
been trained since childhood. Each Guild had their own set of rules, regulations and 
fees in the form of services rendered. In general, if any underclass citizen wanted to 
find work to improve their situation, their only option would be to work through a 
Guild doing whatever work they could qualify for.
      Tribute Collectors
      The creation of tribute collectors is something that has become necessary for 
the Empire post-shattering, due to the byzan-tine bureaucracy of their society which 
has found it necessary to enlist the aid of non-Sophians. While trading is strictly 
prohibited with those who have not been formally recognized with a sufficient title, 
the Empire wishes to lure foreigners into their ranks through incentives which can be 
earned either by completing the requests of nobles or by providing them with 
materials that they are always in short supply, like gold and manpower.
      While gold is a positively gauche demand from those nobles who wish to live 
in greater opulence after having to flee from their homeworld, as well as those who 
have become more acquainted with their new lifestyle due to the shattering, it holds 
a vital part in maintaining and replicating their antiquated technology. Not only that, 
but due to the higher risk presented for psycasters, gold is necessary in constructing 
prestige power armour that boosts their combat potential while keeping them safe, 
which Eltex clothing could otherwise not provide.
      Prisoners and slaves are used as involuntary labour. Generally, the nobility 
requires a vast network of technicians, servants and underclass in order to support 
only a few of their rank, as well as the need for loyal soldiers and commanders. 
Every person "donated" to their cause is equally important, even if they're missing 
body parts or possessing undesirable traits, for they can always be treated later or 
turned into thralls by installing neural inhibitors. People who prove valuable to the 
Empire can later be taken into the fold to serve at a station that suits their 
capabilities, with only the most competent being given the chance to prove 
themselves worthy of boarding their starships if they can host a stellarch who will 
personally vet their abilities.
      Military
      War has extremely strict rules and, due to the fact civilization was united 
culturally rather than militarily, never truly advanced beyond melee weapons. Even 
bionic replacements or enhancements geared towards combat were intended to be 
used in melee and only a savage would ignore proper etiquette in warfare. Thus, 
when the mechanoid invasion fleet attacked, Sophian society had no experience with 
ranged weapons. Only after the shattering of the Empire did they begin to mount 
weapons on pre-existing power armour suits. However, they were tacked on as an 
afterthought, as the idea was still to get into melee as fast as possible.
      With the exception of post-shattering integration of ranged weaponry, the only 
implementation of projectile launchers within the  Empire's military can be found on 
their starships, primarily because throwing your sword point-first at someone in non-
atmospheric conditions with zero gravity is a viable combat tactic. As such, ship-
borne weapons were rather primitive, only designed to stop enemy ships long 
enough that their soldiers could board and commence melee fighting. Destroying 
enemy ships was viewed as a pointless waste of both life and resources and there 
was little glory to be had, especially for those soldiers eager to test their mettle.
      Because of these factors, the most advanced forms of ship weaponry 
manifested in the form of disabling and grappling weapons, such as highly advanced 
forms of EMP weaponry that can bypass shields in a single go, launchers that spit 
out globs of sticky, expansive tar-like substance that clog up a ship's engines, and 
swarms of tiny mechanoids that attached themselves to the ship's hull and slowly 
dismantled important subsystems. While their capability for destruction was quite 
low, their tenacity and drive to get in their enemy's face was very demoralising, 
especially for those that had never fought against the Empire.
      
      Both troops and ships had various sizes of magnetic and gravity tethers with 
excellent range and homing capabilities that could reel a soldier in or keep a ship at 
an optimal range of their target. 
      
      Pre-Shattering Combat
      Combat is something that took place multiple times every single day 
throughout the Empire, however these skirmishes happened primarily in the form of 
ritualistic duels. Since both formal and informal duels involved incredibly strict rules, 
they were always documented and were fought in front of an audience of some kind. 
Lower ranked duels were generally held in front of an observing AI, but high ranked 
duels were performed as a public spectacle and widely regarded as a form of 
affordable entertainment for the masses.
      An informal duel required little paperwork but also involved the least risks as it 
was performed with blunt training weapons until someone either yielded or could no 
longer fight. Less common, a formal duel involved a lot more paperwork, reservation 
of a designated duelling arena of required size, an equally large audience, and a 
fight to the death. Should a formal duel be fought by the involved nobles rather than 
proxy fighters, the winner obtained the title of the loser. As such, lower rank nobles 
could not challenge someone who was a higher rank than them as they had no 
obligation to accept and had better things to spend their time on. A higher rank noble 
could challenge the lower rank to a duel if their position was justifiably threatened, 
however the lower rank could back out with the promise of stopping their hostile 
behaviour. Duels between nobles of a similar rank were almost always done through 
proxy fighters, who would earn a large number of benefits in the event they win and 
was one of the easiest ways to advance in rank.
      Larger scale conflicts between Houses were done through small skirmishes 
rather than outright hostilities which would otherwise disrupt local services and 
potentially incur the Emperor's wrath or retaliation. Typically they only took place 
within the involved Houses' territory and involved extremely elaborate contracts that 
were negotiated before-hand. Any collateral damage incurred was required to be 
paid out of pocket by the respective House, which meant that any such declaration of 
open hostilities was very carefully considered beforehand. They did still take place, 
as it was one of the very few ways to obtain more territory, and thus more power, 
outside of someone from their own House marrying into another and entering the line 
of inheritors.
      Open warfare was a relic of the times before the founding of the Empire, and 
as such there were ceremonial wargames that took place in large, unpopulated 
areas. Sometimes a single House would be on both sides whenever there were 
issues involving succession, allowing them to avoid causing excessive damage to 
themselves. Most of the large-scale combat involved massive, elaborate war 
machines that were typically controlled by a House's shackled persona AI, while 
smaller scale combat was done by younger soldiers who were hoping to distinguish 
themselves and earn a title. Death was very rare during these wargames and almost 
always accidental, but there were rare cases where someone's incompe-tence as a 
leader would cause the death of one of their squad mates. In such an event, they 
would be publicly punished by lashing, isolation, humiliation or something that would 
leave a lasting mark on the person responsible.
      Post-Shattering Combat
      After the Calamity at Sophiamunda, fleeing House fleets encountered the rest 
of human civilization who did not care about such things as honourable duels and 
preferred to stay out of melee range. As they had departed their homeworld's 
gravitational influence and future generations were born on these ships, their 
physical bodies were no longer accustomed to a dense atmosphere and became 
weaker. This resulted in the effect of soldiers needing to wear power armour, other-
wise only used during the ceremonial wargames, as it both increased their combat 
effectiveness and protected them in ranged engagements so they could force the 
enemy into melee, where they would prove superior.
      While some of the nobility did end up adopting some ranged weaponry out of 
necessity, most only used the Empire's melee weapons like the monosword due to 
the inherent honour in wielding such a weapon. As the Shattered Empire boosted 
their ranks with conscripted foreign soldiers, their methods of waging war started to 
blend together. Even their starships, long suited to capturing and boarding parties, 
were augmented with orbital bombardment packages and proper projectile 
weaponry.
      Troopers
      Imperial grunts; the Empire seeks to boost its military and production 
capabilities, typically targeting outlander unions and offering them freedom - at the 
cost of conscription (all troopers have 'freeholder' titles), or slavery. They're light 
infan-try meant to inflate the Empire's ranks, not trained too well, and this is why they 
tend to use industrial weapons and flak armor which shares their outlander origin. 
They're generally threaded into Janissary legions as rear echelon troops.
      Janissaries
      Each individual Janissary legion is recruited, maintained, and commanded by 
their respective duke/duchess and are generally issued spacer-tech weapons and 
partially-powered armor. Sometimes clashes would occur between two lords who pit 
their Janissary legions against one another, requiring an Imperial cataphract 
detachment to respond.
      Cataphracts
      Commanded by a consul, the Cataphract corps recruits its members from 
exceptional Janissary legions. Cataphracts are issued the heaviest armor and 
weaponry in the Empire's arsenal, and are typically used as a force-multiplier to 
'breakthrough' stubborn defenses.
      Stellic Guards
      Hand-picked from the Cataphract corps, Stellic Guards are the best of the 
best, tasked with guarding high-level personnel and the High Stellarch themself.
      Inquisitors
      The militant wing of the Imperial Church is comprised of inquisitors, whose 
function is to ensure political stability and faith in the Empire's ideology. Though 
technically a separate entity from the Empire's military, inquisitors aren't an 
uncommon sight among Imperial forces, working to expose traitors in the ranks, and 
uproot resistance in occupied populaces. Some squads are even tasked with hunting 
down rogue psycasters, collecting, or destroying valuable archotechnological 
artifacts.
      
      Stellic Guards adorn a prestigious variant of the Cataphract armor, with 
ornamental golden plates and decorations. 