
      FAUNA
      The presence of a rich variety of fauna on a habitable planet is essential to 
maintain the biosphere that will eventually be subjected to the "delicate touch of 
humanity". While many of these animals could have otherwise been found on Terra 
before over-industrialisation destroyed those natural habitats, some are genetically 
modified and have been introduced to the environment via various means. In 
general, the circle of life is made in a closed loop of such an incredible scale that it is 
practically impervious to any attempts of excessive hunting that could occur without 
a planet-wide organised effort.
      One of the unintended side effects of forcing an evolutionary process to occur 
over a period of decades instead of centuries is that animal-borne diseases have 
taken an unusual turn. This attempt at tuning a biosphere to be beneficial to humans, 
while making some animals more likely to favour living with them, has resulted in a 
mutated form of rabies called scaria. This disease can only affect animals and 
creates a blind, frothing rage directed at any humans that they see or technology that 
attempts to attack them. Furthermore, some animals affected by scaria become 
subjected to accelerated decay when their life functions cease, however it can be 
cured by a talented doctor with certain medicines that are found in small amounts in 
industrial-tier medical kits.
      Terra Geneline
      Every rimworld is a terraformed planet which uses the genetic data from Terra 
in order to properly establish an environment catered to humanity. Because it is not 
left to the natural evolutionary process over millions of years, all of these rimworlds 
are filled with vastly similar animals to those that can be found in zoos, sanctuaries 
and animal enclosures on Terra including bears, deer, squirrels, wolves, elephants 
and lions.
      Thanks to their proliferation, rimworlds are almost a snapshot of Terra before 
over-industrialisation caused the eventual annihilation of natural habitats. They also 
serve as a vital backbone to the continued survival of tribalistic humans, as well as 
valuable exports to customers who prefer animals and animal products that aren't 
lab-grown. While a failed terraforming project would result in a lack of Terra geneline 
animals, there are some planets that have an even greater variety of species thanks 
to a richer genetic database on seeding.
      Domesticated Animals
      The Terra geneline animals that are not included in the terraforming 
databanks are ones that have been purposefully bred over centuries by humans as 
either companions or livestock. While there can be cases of wandering docile packs, 
such cases originate from an external source - such as a trade ship - that brought 
them to that rimworld originally. While animals like cats, dogs, ducks, and chickens 
can propagate without issue, they were not included in the databanks because such 
animals are not suited to living in the wild as they either need constant care or are 
easy prey for predators. However, animals like cows and sheep are very much in 
demand for certain colonies that are based on ranching due to their excessive 
production capabilities.
      Genetically Modified Animals
      While domesticated animals are generally too dependent on humans in order 
to survive by themselves out in the wild, there are cases of genetically modified 
fauna that manage to propagate successfully. One popular example is boomalopes 
who are raised to produce chemfuel. Escaped boomalopes are rarely, if ever, hunted 
by local wildlife due to their tendency to explode when they die. Another example is 
the warg, a genetically-engineered weaponised wolf-like creature that only eats raw 
meat and corpses, and are frequently used as guard dogs and corpse disposal. 
      
      While such animals weren't included in the seeding of rimworlds, because of 
their ubiquitous popularity and utility in nearly every facet of life, they can still be 
found practically everywhere with some being even more popular than livestock 
animals.
      
      The humble muffalo is incredibly popular because it can survive in practically 
any environment. They function as fantastic pack animals and can be regularly shorn 
for wool to use as excellent cold-weather clothing, and as such they are used in 
practically every single land-based roaming caravan. The main trait that all of these 
types of animals share is that they are all modified versions of the Terra geneline to 
provide greater functionality to humans in their attempts to expand their influence 
through space.
      
      Legendary Animals
      While genetically modified animals can usually manage to propagate 
themselves on a rimworld, there are some that have very illusive existences. Their 
solitary nature, the massive amounts of territory needed in order to sustain their diet, 
their luxurious pelts and ivory making them a frequent target or even their preference 
for always staying on the move and only temporarily settling down to nurture a 
newborn have made these fauna practically mythical and their passage is always 
considered noteworthy.
      
      Perhaps the most famous example is the thrumbo - a being whose entire 
existence is an enigma. 
      
      There are speculations that they were created specifically for luxury trophy 
hunters looking to hunt the so-called "best creature to ever exist". The title of "best 
creature" stems from its incredibly resistant and luxurious hide as well as its naturally 
razor-sharp horn, along with the fact that they can subsist on any vegetative matter 
including trees which forces them to constantly find new sources of food. They are 
capable of living for hundreds of years and are naturally gentle creatures, but any 
hunter trying their luck will find themselves trying to take down a creature that 
requires an anti-armor missile.
      There are more or equally enigmatic animals, such as the fenrir - a gigantic 
and deadly wolf, or the odin - a monolithic, fortified mechanoid. The commonality of 
these creatures - besides their relative rarity - is that their origins are shrouded in 
mystery and none have come forward to clarify the matter. It is perhaps possible that 
the ones responsible for the development of these creatures are in fact the 
archotechs, but that is purely speculative as they are even more mysterious in their 
dealings and behaviour.
      
      Paragons & Mechahybrids
      There has been some opposition to the lack of variety of genetic material 
included in the Von Neumann probes' gene banks. As humanity develops more and 
more interesting animals, some believe that future probes should have them stored 
so that they may wander freely on the planets humanity will later colonize. However, 
updating those banks is a very complicated matter. Accessing them remotely isn't 
always successful due to the inherently complicated nature of communicating with a 
computer system that is literally eons away. These creatures also need to be 
thoroughly tested in controlled environments before they can be approved, such as 
the Paragon-type and their mechanized derivative. By running simulations beyond 
the limitations and restrictions imposed by genetic sequencing technology which 
came into effect after the Fall of Sorne, scientists can better predict potential 
disastrous outcomes before releasing the animals into the wild.
      Take, for example, the humble banana. One beloved ancient type of banana 
was the Gros Michel banana, eventually supplanted by a different banana when it 
was rendered extinct due to a single strain of disease. The issue with the Gros 
Michel and its successor is that they are all genetically identical. Since they were 
clones, any bacteria, virus or disease that affects one will affect all. So, we turn to 
mankind's endeavor to create pinnacle animals that are genetically perfect - the 
Paragon. Paragons remove all of the excess data - the "junk" that doesn't contribute 
to the animal's taxonomic family - and augments the remaining data. In essence, 
creating a Paragon results in a new species of genetically identical animals, and due 
to lack of bad data there is zero risk of inbreeding but a very large risk of a disease 
outbreak.
      While this could be dealt with eventually, there are other risks in introducing a 
superior species - especially multiple ones - into an ecosystem that we have known 
to otherwise be self-sustaining. To try and mitigate the potential fallout, numerous 
incredibly complex experiments and computer simulations are run in order to 
determine the viability of these endeavors. However, similar to how bit-based 
computers have difficulty predicting weather patterns beyond a couple of weeks, 
these simulations can provide false data that needs to be accounted for due to the 
complexity of trying to simulate the entire history of humanity when it was still in the 
hunter-gatherer stage.
      Mechahybrids, the mechanized derivatives of Paragons, are an attempt to 
create cybernetic organisms for use in combat zones. Due to the nature of the 
conversion process, Paragons are a necessity to prevent failures from occurring, 
which would be a massive waste of time and resources. Overall they are extremely 
capable but are very resource heavy during both the setup and conversion phase, 
and they require broadcasters to update their Identify Friend-Foe subsystem so they 
don't attack the wrong targets. Of course, that doesn't stop some corporations 
setting up massive parks filled with isolated Paragons which are then automatically 
converted and transported by mechanoid hives to obscenely rich clients.
      However, when it comes to worlds beyond the reach of government 
regulations, no such laws or restrictions exist and people are generally allowed to do 
whatever they please if they can get away with it. Ethics, morality and conscience 
are sometimes considered a luxury in the wild frontier, and some people will use 
whatever advantage they can to survive.
      
      Alpha Animals
      After the Fall of Sorne, numerous companies and wealthy individuals took the 
events to heart and started an organization that would prevent it from occurring 
again. While this was their publicly stated goal, their true objective was to prevent the 
"boring" homogenisation of the galaxy caused by terraforming and introduce a wild 
variety of animals that were capable of growing independently from the influences of 
Terra. These various influences gathered together under the moniker of the "Alpha 
Initiative", relating to their objective of bringing forth new Alphas that would give rise 
to almost alien lifeforms. Their eventual association with the alphabeaver proved to 
be a never-ending headache as they continually have to argue that their efforts 
couldn't possibly be associated with "a lazy modification to the common beaver that 
even their creator is too embarrassed to admit their mistake".
      The Alpha Initiative has created many unique species, most of whom have 
their own beneficial - or detrimental - "gimmick". Such examples include the aerofleet 
- capable of reproducing asexually and pro-ducing a gel that can be refined to create 
and store power, the cactipine - an unusual vegetable-like meat to help those living 
in desert climates, and the feralisk - a supersized spider capable of natural synthread 
and eventually resulted in its home planet being glassed in atomic fire - their last 
ditch attempt to prevent the spider hordes from taking over. It didn't work. Some of 
these fauna are capable of living in the wild and have become commonplace, while 
others are rarer with more noteworthy sightings. 
      
      There are cases where creatures have been bred and selected speci?cally to 
become the new dominant lifeform in a region alongside humans.
      
      An example of such is the Raptor shrimp who makes its home in the 
otherwise popular, disease-ridden tropical biomes. They are incredibly fast and 
dangerous, with two large scythe-like bones at the ends of their arms and armoured 
in a thick carapace, possessing exceptional regenerative abilities that allow them to 
dominate a region. For rimworlds that have had complications during the 
terraforming process, the resulting regions fall under the moniker Alpha Biomes as 
they evolve their own host of creatures. Capable of thriving in these unusual and 
typically hostile environments, the Fire wasp has developed in volcanic regions and 
the agaripod thrives in regions with excessive fungi.
      While the Alpha Initiative has created many unique and interesting 
xenomorphic-like creatures, they are not responsible for every creature that fits the 
definition of an Alpha Animal. Quasi-biological creatures developed by mechanoids 
and many Legendary Animals fall under this category. Not all types will be present 
on an individual rimworld but their presence will automatically cause a passive or 
active change in a region.
      
      Insectoids
      The Sorne geneline insectoids are present on practically every single rimworld 
known to man, largely attributed to the negligence of mega-corporations in their 
pursuit of profit and the capability of the reproduction hives that can be relocated 
without damage. After the Fall of Sorne, many escaping ships eventually became 
overrun from their onboard insectoids, some only needing a single insectoid larva 
specimen in order to propagate.
      Whilst the majority of encountered insectoids are combat variants designed to 
engage mechanoids, there are some utility variants and designer breeds that were 
bioengineered for intended purposes. , so any vatgrown insectoid is incapable of 
reproducing and have lifespans of just a few years.
      
      Due to galactic law, the only insectoids that are capable of reproducing are 
those descendant of the original Sorne clutch, so any vatgrown insectoid is 
incapable of reproducing and have lifespans of just a few years.
      
      Although great tragedy has come from the Sorne geneline, it has also brought 
three products widely circulated throughout human space. The most commonly 
known, as well as most popular, is Insect Jelly. Primarily consumed by insectoids as 
food, it was originally genetically engineered to never rot and nourish any creature 
that eats it. Its texture is smooth and rich, being very pleasant to eat and is popular 
everywhere. The other two products are Spider Silk, which is very popular among 
the ultra wealthy for its beauty, and insectoid chitin, which can be used as a 
renewable replacement for metals or refined by the mineral industry en masse.
      
      Insectoid-Human Experiments
      Due to public records being heavily redacted, one of the lesser known 
experiments on Sorne are the Insectoid-Human experimentations. Genomes that 
have been mixed with mammalian and insectoid genetic material were transplanted 
into mostly unwilling test subjects and underwent random painful mutations, ranging 
from changing limbs to organ modifications. Because implanting genomes is not an 
exact science, it is recommended to use an insignificant test subject to mature the 
intended organ before transplanting to the recipient.
      Before they were outlawed, there were cases of humans being transplanted 
with pure insectoid genomes by mega-corporations that were hit hardest by Sorne's 
mechanoid invasion. However, the results of these experiments were either 
destroyed or smuggled out and ejected where they could not be traced back to their 
owner. Incredibly dangerous, such amalgamations were made to destroy everything 
in their path and could only be stopped when thoroughly destroyed.

      Wild Hives
      On rimworlds, Wild Hives lack a controlling queen. Without the pheromone-
induced direction of an insectoid queen, the genetic variety of these Insectoids are 
very limited, only consisting of mixtures of drone and warrior genomes. Largely 
aimless and operating on instincts still present from the first Sorne geneline, these 
insectoids seek areas of warmth and power surges while trying to secure and 
expand the area around their hives.
      Whilst such groups can be found inhabiting caves, most lay dormant under 
mountains, waiting in ambush. The more prosperous colonies attract larger groups 
as they desperately seek to find the warmth of civilization in order to fulfill their 
genetic destiny of wiping out a mechanoid threat. Even without mechanoids present, 
they will view any humans they encounter as intruders and will attempt to protect 
their home.
      Black Hives
      A variant of the Sorne geneline, the Black Hive are  far more aggressive and 
formidable than the "regular" insectoids. This increase in aggression has led to a 
complication in their reproductive methods as they generally lack the communal 
empathy required to tend for their own hives when a potential threat is nearby. As a 
result, when a group of travelling, subterranean larvae sense the presence of 
technology - usually electrical disturbances - they will rapidly form hives to start 
producing their main combat units that  burst out once it reaches the surface.
      Bred to engage powerful defenses through brute force or overwhelming 
numbers, these insectoids have tough chitinous hides that can be harvested, should 
they manage to be eliminated. Some variants are capable of launching ranged acid 
projectiles and rationally using the terrain to their advantage against a similarly 
ranged opponent. However, their presence can be a boon as they can be butchered 
for their hides and meat, and their hives overstimulated to produce excess of a more 
nutritious variant of Insect Jelly. This can be safely harvested once the hives can no 
longer produce any more, and if left alone other creatures will gladly feast on this 
jelly.
      Royal Hives
      For the insectoids that have a pheromone receptor, they are controlled by an 
insectoid queen. While the presence of the queen creates a greater genetic variety, 
they still only consist of combat variants. Some insectoids have also undergone 
further genetic changes to serve as personal guards for the queen, becoming larger 
and tougher than their counterparts.
      The jelly of these modified insectoids have also undergone a change and 
serves as both nutrition and as a method of incubation. 
      
      Although Royal Insect Jelly is as nutritious as the regular variant and boosts 
the body's immune response, overconsumption will cause an insectoid to gestate in 
the host's body. 
      
      Should the new addict stop consuming it regularly, the insectoid will wake 
from hibernation and burst from the person's chest. This is a morbid opportunity, 
however, as the newly born insectoid will have been imprinted with positive 
impressions of their host and could be trained.
      Each Royal Hive has a dominant queen that controls its brood through 
pheromone secretion - with potential secondary queens helping the Hive - and are 
considerably more dangerous compared to any Wild Hives. More aggressive and 
more tactically aware, they are far more ruthless in eliminating their enemies, and 
the queen's pheromones can blanket a planet, influencing all insectoids around the 
globe. Whilst their original purpose is to fight mechanoids, they have equal disdain 
for their former human masters. One could argue that they would be considerably 
happier when the galaxy is erased of all human presence.
      
      Gauranlen Dryads
      Alongside the initial success of terraforming projects managing to achieve 
sustainable results, there was some fervour amongst the various mega-corporations 
to create something unique to bring in considerable capital. One of the most popular 
ideas was the creation of tourist planets by seeding them with megafauna and 
megaflora originating from prehistoric Terra. One particular company - Gauranlen 
Inc. - was instead interested in creating a new entry into the field of dendrology by 
giving it the capability to thrive in an environment primarily composed of humans as 
the preva-lent species. The reasons behind their motivations are rather unclear, 
however there have been some hypotheses that these efforts were part of 
reparations due to fallout from a planet-wide environmental collapse. The inspiration 
was pub-licly stated to come from fantasy consumer media showcas-ing dryads and 
their connection to nature.
      In order to provide a motivation for a human to autonomously take care of this 
new tree type, a reward system was implemented to affect both parties. As the 
Caretaker tends to the tree's health, it in turn provides for the needs of its host. In 
order for this to be achieved, a form of connection ceremony has to take place by 
extracting a small sample of moss-covered bark and placing it on the nape of the 
neck of the future Caretaker. A form of benign parasitic fungus, the moss painlessly 
integrates with the host's spinal cord and brainstem. Once the moss has withered 
from the bark, the connection is deemed a success if numerous skin discolorations 
are present, indicating subdermal pheromone glands. Should another connected 
host be present, the airborne particles will interfere with the implantation and the 
moss will die prematurely.
      The tree itself - referred to as a dryad queen - requires little sunlight in order 
to function and instead obtains almost all of its nutrients through its deeply probing 
roots. These also function as a way of providing local genetic data samples which 
will be used during its reproductive cycles. Whilst it is capable of barely surviving on 
its own, the presence of a human Caretaker is needed to force the plant into 
overproduction and excessive nutrient processing to provide better yields. By 
pruning the unhealthy parts from the tree, it is forced to pump up more than would be 
necessary in order to repair the damage, gradually establishing an infrastructure that 
can support a greater number of drones.
      Excess material is then simply dumped into the surrounding soil, helping 
fertilize the tree and making it more beneficial to the hosting humans. The constant 
exposure of the pheromones of the controller's glands also helps make the queen 
feel safe and willing to expend the extra effort. Should the original Caretaker perish 
or simply be negligent in tending, the tree will only gestate up to half of its maximum 
permissible seedlings, if any.
      
      Immature Dryads
      The immature dryad is the baseline form of dryad that a queen produces. It 
requires very few nutrients for upkeep and is basically a mobile form of a nutrient 
mixture composed of various genetic material. This form shares much in common 
with three very different species - fungi, invertebrates, and marine animals. As such, 
it has a very particular and docile gender as well as numerous glands containing 
complicated mixtures of hormones. Should the situation require it, this dryad is 
capable of wrapping itself in a chrysalis and releasing a specific mixture of hormones 
whilst dissolving itself, before emerging as a new gender that best serves the 
situation at hand. The catalyst for this process is the human Caretaker and the 
pheromones they release by scratching the nape of their neck to stimulate the 
subdermal glands present after a successful Connection ceremony. When these 
pheromones are released whilst thinking of a strong, simplified desire, the dryad 
queen interprets these signals and relays it to a connected dryad. The better care 
given to the tree, the greater the variety of options that the queen is willing to 
implement in order to ensure the treatment continues. The amount of energy 
available for each form is restricted, so each gender is highly specialized for the 
required task with their own benefits and drawbacks.
      
      Combat Dryads
      The dryads are able to mutate into a gender that corresponds with improved 
combat efficiency, based on the feeling of the Caretaker. Should they express fear 
the chosen form is a Barkskin, whereas feelings of aggression result in a Clawer and 
feelings of territorialism result in the Spitter. Barkskin dryads develop a thick barklike 
hide that is similar to the dryad queen, composed of flexible plates and thin layers of 
expanding cellulose when damaged. Clawer dryads emulate the insectoids and 
develop chitinous claws and mandibles that are sharp enough to slice through metal 
plating. The downside is that each mutation either sacrifices attack or defensive 
potential, respectively. Similarly, Spitter dryad instead sacrifices close range 
capabilities for long ranged attacks, spitting forth inaccurate globs of acid at their 
targets with a mouth full of clumsy, oversized teeth.
      Utility Dryads
      As utility dryads involve feelings of one's home, each gender corresponds to 
various mixtures of feelings of introspection, anxiety, expansionism and procreation, 
resulting in Carriers, Stonediggers or Gaumakers. Although Carriers emulate 
primates for their strength and have similar dexterity to humans, they are still slower 
than humans even when supplemented by numerous mushrooms that absorb any 
surrounding energy. Stonediggers are extremely easy going and are primarily 
focused on improving their carapace by digging out choice chunks of minerals and 
eating them while leaving larger undesirable chunks aside for the colony. 
Gaumakers are rather unique - when they are near 2 other Gaumakers, they merge 
to become a new dryad queen by combining their genetic data. To prevent 
homogeny, the merging process takes all of the genetic information from the 3 
Gaumakers and shuffles it, creating a new strain of dryad queen in the process. 
Even though the new tree will share its underground root network with the original, it 
will operate on an entirely different pheromone caused by the chaotic melding.
      Production Dryads
      Creation of the production dryads involves using local genetic samples to 
provide an optimal solution that is plaguing the Caretaker. Pangs of hunger, feeling 
sickly, or expression of chilliness or sorrow result in their various forms depending on 
their combination. Berrymakers share similarities with toads that gestate their brood 
in pores of their exposed back but instead of releasing tadpoles berries emerge 
when fully ripened. Like the frogs that eat various plants and mushrooms to produce 
protective toxins, Medicinemakers produce locally cultivated herbal medicine that 
can be pruned when ready. Woodmakers share their unusual leaf colour with the 
dryad queen as a way to ward off herbivores and bushes of fibrous material grow out 
of their back that can be carefully pruned and used as a wood substitute. 
Nectarmakers try to improve both mood and hunger by nurturing invigorating 
ambrosia by sniffing out their immature sprouts and absorbing them. Gaubricmakers 
grow an unusual coat of shaggy, leather-like material that can be sheared and 
woven like fabric by the colony. All of these dryads dedicate their available nutrient 
allocation to producing materials for their host and as such are methodically slow 
and very vulnerable.
      Awakened Dryads
      A dryad can be forcibly awakened by the Caretaker by using a similar process 
in combining Gaumakers to make a new dryad queen. Because they are incapable 
of shuffling their genetic data, this instead results in a more powerful variant of the 
base form with expanded capabilities. While this subvariant is unshackled from their 
queen and responds directly to the Caretaker, this decoupling eventually invokes a 
terminal separation sickness as it is unable to change or rejuvenate itself. While this 
can seem rather cruel, it does allow the colony to be supported by more dryads than 
the Tree could otherwise maintain and doesn't prevent new immature dryads from 
being grown. 