
      2177 - MARTIAN DAWN INITIATIVE
      During the late 21st century, genetic engineering on Terra underwent rapid 
development and refining which turned it from an industrial to a consumer 
technology. This is largely thanks to numerous wealthy individuals going to 
increasingly dramatic lengths to feud with each other through extravagant spending 
habits. Plastic surgery had taken a backseat to genetic alterations such as 
bioluminescent body tattoos, iris alterations to imitate feline pupils and prismatic 
scale generation to both dazzle plebeians and ruin paparazzi attempting to 
photograph them. Not even their unborn children were spared, altered to be smarter, 
faster and prettier than they otherwise could have been, generating an entire 
industry revolving around bespoke baby designing.
      Thanks to this dramatic influx of funding, these developments bled over into 
the agricultural sector resulting in improved livestock and enhanced crops. Such 
examples include cows that were made to reduce their environmental impact by 
breaking down the methane produced during digestion into water and ethanol, 
leading to the development of chemfuel. Production chains were simplified by 
creating crops like wheat that transformed into flour by the merest touch when it was 
ready to be harvested or cocoa trees that produced squares of refined chocolate.
      During this same time period of a genetic engineering genesis, some of the 
richest people to have ever lived decided to have their own battle of egos by 
attempting to colonize and terraform the Red Planet. The efforts were considered 
rather divisive by the general populace as they believed the money could be better 
spent on improving living conditions on Terra rather than avoid paying taxes on a 
potentially futile effort, while others jumped at the chance to become the first settlers 
on another world. Progress was slow, incredibly difficult and taxing on those trying to 
make the settlements work; many of them collapsing due to technical difficulties, 
logistical complications and personality conflicts. Successful colonies only barely 
managed to keep themselves sustained and couldn't contribute to the suggested 
timeline estimate for terraforming of 100'000 years.
      With the advancements in genetic engineering however, the manufacturing of 
terraforming-class vegetation became a reality by the 22nd century. Plants capable 
of surviving in almost inhospitable conditions were designed to transform nutrients 
from the barren soil into fertilizer and produce excessive amounts of oxygen, while 
also being genetically stunted so that they could no longer replicate should the 
environmental conditions prove adequate for human life. These seeds were 
transported to the surviving colonies which were then able to establish ever larger 
pockets of safe living conditions as well as able to support more colonists. In order to 
speed up the terraforming process even further, autonomous drones connected to 
an orbiting satellite were designed and then entered into production, packaged 
together in reusable single-stage-to-orbit vehicles with seed payloads. This was the 
very first Von Neumann probe and was heavily publicized in every news outlet as the 
Martian Dawn Initiative.
      The first probe was rather successful but had to be regularly restocked with 
genetic material banks which quickly ate into the budget for creating more probes 
that would eventually be sent to other planets. Successors were designed to instead 
carry genetic data banks that would feed into the drones allowing them to synthesize 
material on the fly with whatever soil, minerals and liquids they could find on the 
planet's surface. Those designed for the other planets without human presence were 
given manufacturing capabilities to create even more probes and drones with 
materials from meteoroids and planetary minerals. As the drones didn't have the 
thrust capable of returning to orbit, they were programmed to disassemble 
themselves within areas protected from the environment so they could potentially be 
salvaged later as refined metals.
      Von Neumann probes were carefully and intricate designed through the entire 
process to alter a terraforming candidate to emulate an environment as close as 
possible to Terra as it would have been without human evolution, along with a few 
choice introductions of genetically engineered crops and animals such as the 
chemroot and muffalo which would prove beneficial to human colonists. The final 
iteration of these quasi-artificially intelligent machines became realized in 2352 with 
the development of the JT-Drive, which allowed them to be sent far beyond the local 
sector to prepare candidates for human expansion.
      Many late-stage probes were sent out to relatively-nearby star systems with 
terraforming candidates in order to allow humanity to expand across the stars. 
However, after a few decades of sending out numerous VN probes there became an 
increasingly obvious issue of dwindling materials and a need to reduce construction 
costs which led to a boom in the space mining industry and - centuries later - 
resulted in the establishment of one of the first Stellar Shipyards and Stellar Forges. 
This has brought humanity beyond a Type I civilization and slowly inching closer to 
becoming a Type II civilization on the Kardashev scale. 