

      2776 - FALL OF SORNE
      As a result of a massive coverup effort by the mega-corporations, the Sorne 
geneline insectoids have numerous dubious origins because no one wants to admit 
they were the ones who developed them. There is sparse concrete information 
available, however, as the data was obtained from heavily redacted documents.
      Initially a lucrative prison world, the high metal content planet Sorne relied on 
forced labour to work in the hazardous mining sector. The presence of strong 
magnetic fields prevented the use of non-shielded machinery and robots and as 
such non-automated labourers were considerably more profitable. As the industry 
progressed further and successfully mined all the available surface ore deposits, it 
became necessary to invest more capital in order to dig further down. By then, the 
vast majority of residents lived in hollowed-out caves of depleted mine shafts.
      In order to maximise profit whilst reducing the potential backlash from 
overworking prisoners due to increased workloads, the primary government reached 
out to external mega-corporations to offer them a prime location for establishing a 
branch office as well as numerous benefits. One of the main interested parties had 
discovered pristine genetic material present in the local insects and due to the strong 
magnetic shielding preventing any mutations from occurring, this was considered a 
prime opportunity as they could perform genome experiments with fewer efforts.
      The veritable cornucopia of genetic sampling eventually led to the 
development of the insectoids. There were many successes and failures - insectoids 
capable of assisting in mining out residencies, refining minerals from loose rocks, 
and even producing a type of milk. The amount of excess material from these 
different experiments led to the carcasses being sold off to the labour camps to be 
butchered. One particular experiment resulted in a new form of extremely beautiful - 
but delicate - silk as a failed attempt to compete with what eventually became known 
as hyperweave. However the enormous capital it produced from the ultra-wealthy 
more than made up for the costs.
      The situation eventually devolved when a roaming mechhive started attacking 
the colony. The initial invasions were practically unopposed as there were very few 
installations that were shielded from electromagnetic interference. With extensive 
security details, the safest locations were the mega-corporation branch offices. This 
threat to their bottom line vastly sped up their bioengineering development of 
combat-oriented insectoids.
      These numerous new lifeforms were incredibly durable and performed well 
against the mechanoid menace, however the rate at which they had to be replaced 
started affecting the reserve of organic material. This spurred a desperate measure 
to create insectoids capable of reproducing and changing from something seemingly 
harmless into an optimal form in the field, resulting in two main genomes referred to 
as Black Hive and Royal. Black Hive insectoids were more formidable and 
aggressive variants capable of ranged attacks. Royal insectoids were designed to 
provide a strategic edge by having in-field commanders and breeders, queens, and 
larvae; units capable of rapid metamorphosis.
      Driven by desperation, controller queens proved to be even more dangerous 
to the survivors of Sorne. During a mechanoid raid, a clutch of queens took 
advantage of the chaos and drove the resident insectoids to break out with them 
before splitting up. The facility, owned by Gauranlen Inc., covered up the incident by 
declaring that the nest of insectoids had been destroyed by the mechanoids. 
Unknown to anyone, the escaped clutches started reproducing en masse by 
consuming dead bodies and eventually raided prison labour camps by tunnelling 
underground.
      As the mechanoids were finally driven back, the insectoids had reached 
critical mass and started burrowing everywhere they could find warmth, fiercely 
devouring their former masters, leading to a mass-exodus as the planet issued an 
evacuation order for the survivors. Unbeknownst to them, the vast majority of the 
warmed-up ships had become hosts to numerous insectoid larvae that hatched when 
the ships started their long journey outwards.
      After the fall of Sorne, many galactic laws were passed concerning 
bioengineering. Pure genomes were absolutely forbidden and needed to be mixed 
with genetic material from other species. However, this caused issues when such 
creatures attempted to reproduce and shortened their lifespan due to the impurities. 
Whilst Gauranlen Inc. took the majority of the blame most of the other mega-
corporations took advantage of this disaster in order to sell deterrence methods 
against the insectoids, including the Sonic Repeller and the mass market distribution 
of weaponized mining tools that had proven to be effective against the insectoids' 
carapace. 