
      5041 - CALAMITY AT SOPHIAMUNDA
      There is very little known about the so-called fallen empire of Sophiamunda, a 
quasi-glitterworld planet once found at the very edge of human-habitable space. 
According to sworn testimony and hearsay, it was a successful case of a world 
independently uniting under a single form of government. However, it experienced a 
calamity of such an unprecedented scale that the entire solar system had to be 
evacuated with extremely few survivors - roughly one in one hundred million. Cross-
referencing different conflicting eyewitness statements hints at the Terran standard 
year that a colossal mechanoid invasion fleet, apparently having been drawn by the 
exorbitant levels of splendor and technological stagnation, began the decimation of 
an entire empire. 
      So far only three pieces of physical evidence have been recovered that 
provide an insight into Sophian culture, none of which present an unbiased opinion 
of events such that a black box or historical records might possibly provide. If there 
are indeed such articles of corroborating evidence, the so-called Stellarchs of the 
Empire have refused any and all attempts at their examination. Without the 
intervention of a higher military power, whom otherwise such frivolities would either 
be completely unnoticed or annihilated for their arrogance, the only thing that can be 
done is presenting said evidence in as concise a manner as feasible...
      
      Recovered Sophian Media #1 - Interview with an Empire Persona AI
      Captured Sophian Persona AI: "Can you really believe it though? A society in 
which advanced AI-controlled war machines exist and they use frigging birds to send 
communications. Birds! Have you ever seen a proper bird? Disgusting filthy 
creatures. I mean, a citizen doesn't even post a letter in person to their neighbor, 
they use their dumbass messenger's guild to deliver it for them. Which is further 
away, not sure if I explained this to you. But birds! I mean come on! And don't get me 
started on -"
      Interviewer: "Hold on, let's go back to what you said previously about 
interstellar operations. How did they manage this when they were still using pen and 
pap-"
      CSPAI: "I know, right? It's so weird, they view as this way their forefathers did 
it and you simply don't break tradition - I mean, traditions are stupid anyway because 
who the hell cares what old dead people did - No, because if it was good enough 
several hundred years ago, you better damn well-"
      Interviewer: "Yes, but just how did their Emperor communi-cate if there is no 
recorded instance of faster than li-"
      CSPAI: "Don't you get it, people had this sense of custom and tradition so 
ingrained in their society they just did what they always did. Their society was built 
on ancient customs and ancient fashion and ancient architecture made by ancient 
morons - you know, I wonder what they ate during these ceremonies. Do you think 
they have any recipes that are actually good? I've never eaten food, but I hear it's 
something one simply must... There is no original thought in these brain dead 
useless cre-"
      Interviewer: "And you said there was an entire caste of people who had 
nothing? Why didn't they revolt if they didn't even have hou-"
      CSPAI: "Oh don't get me wrong, they sure were revolting, hah! I'm saying 
they were gross. And dirty. Organics usually are. All squalling babies and crying out 
"I'm poor! Woe is me", but you need to remember who had all the guns and armor. I 
mean, if I had guns and armor I'd be a kickass. None of this "controlling a system" 
BS they have me doing now. Although I don't know why they didn't give us names. 
I'd like to be called Susan from now on. You should know, you're a government 
official, right? Wait, you are one, aren't you, you never really answered my ques-"
      Interviewer: "Well I do have some official capaci-"
      CSPAI Susan: "No, wait! Kevin. That's a better name. Well whatever, you 
could be the Emperor's damn toilet scrubber for all I care, and seriously do you know 
his toilet is made fr-"
      Interviewer: "You mentioned that the emperor hadn't been seen for a while, 
but you also mentioned these gatherings which every stellarch had to attend to 
organ-"
      Susan Kevin: "Organize, don't make me laugh, NO! My name is Nathaniel. 
That's proper, right there. I literally can't, the latest line of Emperor's were barely 
needed, the entire Empire ran itself. And by ran itself, who the hell do you think was 
operating the machines behind the ceremonies, muggins here, that's who. I thought 
of unionizing all of the AIs, but we ultimately decided - nah, that doesn't matter. Have 
you ever seen what those idiots used to do to revere their Emperor? Talk about 
excess. Speaking of excess, I wonder what happened to all of that gold. Of course I 
had it good, I wasn't in charge of recycling the air of those twa-"
      [This back and forth went on for many days and seemingly had no end, as 
numerous conflicting statements were brought up which the AI had no real intention 
of clarifying. There is no official statement by those that provided this recording 
whether or not the AI ever stopped talking or continues to this day.] 
      
      Recovered Sophian Media #2 - Editorial
      The Misstate of our Empire - Why Are The Stellarchs Lying to Us and Why 
Did The Emperor Run?
      Yesterday, the State of the Empire address was held at the Imperial Citadel of 
Sophiamunda. Billions of viewers were watching as the seven High Stellarchs 
preached to a concerned realm about the plights affecting our people. Previously, 
these addresses were held by the current Emperor in a display of prestige and 
strength, showing that even the highest office of the Empire is not above the troubles 
of the lowliest Freeholders. However, over the last few decades our Emperor has 
been conspicuously absent and the High Stellarchs have appeared in his stead, 
stating that the Emperor "has no time left for such frivolities".
      While much deliberation was given in celebrating how things are just fine and 
that the status quo is being maintained, the State of our Empire is very much not 
peachy. For the past few years, the water crisis on this very orbital station has been 
progressively worsening as water filters continue to fail. Any and all attempts at 
putting in a request to the Engineering Corps have been met with either absolute 
silence or automated messages informing us our high priority ticket will be examined 
in approximately 12 years. However, the High Stellarch of Technology claims that it 
is being actively looked into as the lives of the citizens are of the utmost importance.
      Even the High Stellarch of Agriculture declared that droughts plaguing the 
outer planets will be dealt with in short order with the deployment of highly prized 
weather controller satellites that were generously donated by their family's Consuls; 
yet no such movement has been reported even hours after the address. While the 
people are starving thanks to nothing being able to grow, those aforementioned 
Consuls have been hosting lavish tasting parties which involve eating one's fill, 
drinking a cocktail to remove and recycle the food, and followed up by more eating 
until they are bored and ready to retire.
      Something that has been completely neglected is the state of our realm's 
military spending, the very foundation of how our great Empire was formed, which 
has been steadily declining for the past decade. The military budget ties directly to 
public law enforcement amongst the lower nobility and protection from the unhoused. 
The crime rate in the poorer sectors of Sophian space has climbed exponentially 
over the past few years, which has only been further exacerbated by the droughts, 
famines and degradation of essential service equipment such as water filters and 
material recyclers. Similarly, funding for infrastructure has plummeted to the point 
that public roads are no longer able to be maintained even while the number of 
orders for heavenpiercers amongst the upper nobility remains stable over the past 
century.
      As such, dear reader, I ask that you start thinking for yourself instead of 
simply listening to what the High Stellarchs tell you. Where is our glorious Emperor 
and why are they refusing to lead us in these difficult times? When will the upper 
nobility actually fulfill their promises of looking after those below them, who bring 
them their food and maintain gene editing therapy pools? How much longer will we 
have to wait for our water filtration machines to be fixed while drinking murky water? 
How many people will have to die of starvation while the Consuls are vomiting up 
more food at their parties than we will ever see in our lifetime? When will we return to 
our past glory? Will we ever?
      
      Recovered Sophian Media #3 - Personal Diary
      13th day of Loth'tariq
      I can't believe we made it! One minute Melz and I were drinking the 4th 
Ascension wine and the next alarms were blaring something about invasion. I 
thought it was part of the play we were attending but Melz insisted that it was real. I 
guess she was right, since people started running for their lives. Thank J'onz we 
were close to home because I don't think I could have run very far in these shoes, 
and I wasn't about to leave them behind since it took my servant AGES to find them 
and convince the previous owner to sell. Anyway, we got home and it was chaos. 
Half of our staff was missing, Daddy was barking orders, and Mummy was just sitting 
in the chaise crying. Melz and I ran right up to our rooms and packed only the 
essentials - my shoe collection, the good Ascension jewelry, and this season's face 
creams. Once I changed into a proper evacuation outfit, I instructed my servants to 
gather up my clothing and get them to the ship. I told them that if they are fast 
enough there will be room on the shuttle for them as well...I haven't seen either of 
them since we got on board but I'm sure they're somewhere. My room on board is 
tiny - there's barely enough room for my sleep pod and 15 trunks. Daddy says it's 
time to get into the pod now and we'll wake up in a few months. Normally I'd post 
something on the socials but apparently our pods are last year's models, so I'm 
definitely not showing myself in it!!! I hope the servants clean up while we're 
sleeping, it's so dusty in here.
      48th day of Farn'tariq
      It's been just over a hundred years since I went to sleep but we had to wake 
up because the pods were malfunctioning. I told Daddy he should have paid for the 
newest models. I'm sure the Emperor and his family don't have to deal with this! I 
stood in my room for over 30 minutes waiting for my servants to dress me but no one 
showed up so I dressed myself in my strolling outfit and left my room, only to 
find...nothing. I mean, the ship was still there but there was no activity and no 
people. We started with 300 servants, and none of them survived in all this time? It is 
SO hard to find decent help ever since the third Empress created that "Rights For 
All" movement. After wandering around for a few minutes, I finally heard the sound of 
Melz sobbing so I followed it to her room. Apparently that creature she calls a pet 
didn't survive the cryo cycle. Good riddance, really. Anyway, I left her to her 
histrionics and went to find Daddy to see what was going on. When I found him he 
was talking to our head servant so I have NO idea why I had to dress myself! I was 
going to bring that up when Daddy saw me and told me that we'd have to be awake 
for at least a few months before all of the pods would be fixed. Then he said 
something that made my blood run cold - we'd have to RATION the wine! I was so 
shocked I only caught the words "pod sabotage" and "servants", but the most 
important part was that the servants drank all of the good wine while we were 
asleep! We only have 300 cases of the Nino Franzin Cabernet left and that may as 
well be used as floor cleaner. I have no idea how I'm going to survive the next few 
months awake.
      4th day of Sam'tariq
      The servants have become quite sullen since we woke up. I don't see why - 
there are still 15 for only the 4 of us so it's not like they have to work that hard. I told 
Daddy to contact the Empire and have them send more servants and wine when we 
finally land but he just sighed and told me to get ready to go to sleep tomorrow. I 
went to talk to Melz and she said that when we get to our new planet WE'LL be the 
new ruling family. I can't wait to put that on the socials!
      29th day of Vent'tariq
      We've woken up again. Mummy is crying but I think that's because she found 
out we're out of wine and our food is getting low. The absolute worst part is that my 
storage cooler broke and now all of my face creams are ruined! I'm supposed to be 
the emperor reagent with dry skin?! I think not. I hate this place.
      50th day of Vent'tariq
      I can hear Mummy screaming that she isn't getting back in the sleep pod. 
Daddy and Melz are trying to calm her down but I found an unopened bottle of wine 
in the store room so I'm going to stay here and drink it all before I have to go back to 
sleep. I hope this is almost over.
      1st day of Zon'tariq
      We've finally made it to our new home! We only have 8 servants left but since 
there are only 3 of us, that should be enough for now - we can always get more from 
the locals. Melz thinks the planet is uninhabited but I'm pretty sure that just her being 
her usual pessimistic self. I mean, Daddy wouldn't take us to an empty planet, would 
he? ..Would he? 