
      PROFESSIONS
      Humanity is spread across many types of planets - medieval worlds, governed 
by kings and knights, prison worlds ruled with an iron fist by wardens, glitterworlds 
with complex bureaucracy and perfected systems, and many, many others. This 
means that people pick up all sorts of professions, be it to earn an extra buck, or to 
dedicate their lives to noble causes. The list below explains just a few of such 
professions in details.
      Archotech Spy
      Whilst official reports are skeptical about the locations of various archotech 
worlds, they are publicly acknowledged to exist, the main reason being not wanting 
to potentially anger something that is so far beyond humanity's understanding that it 
could threaten the continuation of the species. Various government procedures need 
to be certified - or illegally obtained - before the potential location of a star system of 
interest is disclosed.
      Oftentimes a transcended world is suspected to be a dwarf planet, planetoid, 
or gas giant, so potential researchers are forced to slowly perform scans on multiple 
orbiting bodies before more detailed scans can take place. This caution is not 
unwarranted, however, for some AIs do not like to be observed and will sometimes 
even do some probing of their own. Whilst offering little that the archotechs already 
have, their potential as sources of information - or espionage - is not taken for 
granted.
      Having an AI master is something most would spring for without hesitation, for 
it is their belief that their loyal service will give them whatever rewards they so desire. 
But an archotech is as enigmatic as an Old God and their wants and desires are 
beyond human's understanding. Those that attempt to curry favour would do well to 
imagine their response akin to a common garden ant asking a human for a boon. 
These overlords view their servants' desire for freedom as betrayal and will punish 
such an affront with whatever methods they so please.
      
      Assassin
"It's a hell of a thing, killing a man."
      Assassination is a deeply personal business, for a single death is a tragedy 
but a thousand casualties is a statistic. Although most assassins are trained from 
birth to have no empathy and lack any fear of death, lately cheaper and quicker 
methods have been obtained through mental reprogramming or VR-trained vat 
clones. They're also usually only employed on highly populated worlds by the 
exceedingly wealthy who otherwise have nothing better to do with their time or 
money.
      Navy Pathfinder
      Space exploration is a slow and laborious endeavour - not to mention 
incredibly dangerous. Any person who can chart a pathway clear of hazards to a 
viable planet, and return the information to be properly logged, is automatically 
consid-ered a pathfinder. The Navy is always attempting to further propagate 
Humanity's expansion, as numerous fleets have been established in charting routes 
to unclaimed planets. It can be decades before any team can send back results 
through information probes or psycaster networks so deep space explorers are 
rigorously screened beforehand to ensure they can withstand the loneliness and 
stress of being dozens or hundreds of lightyears away from home on what are 
essentially suicide missions in space.
      Combat Medic
      A quasi-evolution of paramedics, combat medics are medical specialists that 
accompany military squads on missions. Typically equipped with the highest quality 
medkits and usually decked out in full bionic upgrades. Their primary objective is to 
ensure their team returns alive and are often veterans of dozens of missions. 
Popular nicknames include "Battle Angels" and "Valkyries".
      Soldier Experiment
      Progress has never been easy as it involves pushing the boundaries of 
knowledge and wisdom. Often those attempts that contribute the most have a 
distinct lack of morality or empathy, yet the information gleaned is far too valuable 
lest the sacrifices become meaningless. Due to plentiful human resources, urbworlds 
often feature sites of genetic experiments and attempts at furthering humanity's 
evolution. Arguably illegal and in violation of practically every human right, these 
sketchy laboratories often have shadow investors that are still keen on conducting 
experiments to create the ultimate super soldier. Numerous attempts have been 
made through various means like drug cocktails and behavioural experiments but the 
results are nebulous as no public records exist.
      Corporate Fixer
      Corporate culture is ruthless and cutthroat; even more so since the first days 
of extraplanetary colonization. Human lives are just another disposable resource, a 
sacrifice to the revenue-generating machine known as "budget cuts". Given enough 
legal know-how a company can declare its primary offices in any number of different 
jurisdictions. Whilst bureaucratic backstabbing and backroom deals are the accepted 
"official" method of acquiring assets, the real shakers operate behind the scenes 
through corporate fixers. Shrewd, manipulative, resourceful and lacking any 
semblance of empathy, fixers are expected to do whatever it takes for the acquisition 
of assets. The rare compliance refusal would typically result in a bill sent to the next-
of-kin for resource expenditure and cleaning costs.
      Framer
      Arguably a vital role in a tribal society, the framer is not only responsible for 
erecting temporary and permanent building structural frames, but also the gathering 
of required job materials. This requires intricate understanding of structural materials 
and stress-strain forces in order to prevent collapse from the elements in the desired 
timeframe. Much to the framer's chagrin, the importance of this occupation is 
somewhat lost when talking to non-tribespeople, as the typical response is along the 
lines of "huh, I was expecting something more elaborate, like you framed people for 
the mafia or something".
      Lore Keeper
      Books hold a veritable wealth of information and are one of the most 
important contributors to the advancement of civilization. However, the fact that 
people need to be taught how to read and write in a similar manner to each other in 
order for books to be understood creates many issues. A lack of a common written 
word means that information can only be passed on orally, so tribal societies passed 
on knowledge through stories told at nightly gatherings using lore keepers. Chosen 
for having both excellent memory and a knack for engaging conversation each one 
learned the stories from the previous generation.
      Space Navy Tech
      Due to the vastness of space and limited space travel, the Navy is completely 
impossible to centralize. Because of this, each viable colony within a local star group 
becomes their own purveyor of law and order - or what passes for it. Conflicts can 
arise but typically the most powerful planet in a local star group is the one that is 
officially sanctioned by representatives of Terra. The war machine is incredibly 
complex and requires numerous roles to be filled, and often those serving on a 
single ship will end up having to work on another due to crew shortages. In order to 
mitigate these issues, naval ships have standardised systems that can be scaled up 
or down. Techs are those crew members who can work on practically any system 
within a ship and are designated as prime targets for boarding parties for capture or 
elimination.
      Machinist
      Armaments are so commonly available on rimworlds that unless someone is 
looking for something specific, they are typically worth less than the material 
obtained from scrapping them. In more civilized worlds, it is a seller's market due to 
many regulations and crackdowns on weapon-related crime. Because of this, people 
with talent for machining sometimes hone their craft through the black market as the 
supply and manufacturing of weapons is tightly controlled and existing weapons are 
constantly changing hands. A good living can be made off of repairing these quasi-
relics and performing tune-ups and modifications for their new owners.
      Space Marine
      The loud alternative to shipcrackers, space marines are deployed in far larger 
numbers and use a boarding torpedo equipped with numerous screening 
mechanisms. As their mission is to capture the ship with minimal structural damage, 
each torpedo acts as a breach sealant before disgorging their payload. Each squad 
then sweeps through each room with controlled firepower - such as low-yield plasma 
rifles - eliminating all resistance and seizes the Bridge. At this point their command 
ship either sends over replacement crew or initiates remote control for docking and 
claiming.
      Pyromaniac
      Man's obsession with fire has helped jumpstart human civilization, as it 
provides - simply put - light, warmth and more digestible food. The somewhat chaotic 
nature of fire can be considered artful and even beautiful, but just as fire is as much 
a bringer of life, it can also bring destruction if not kept in check. There are some 
who are so entranced by the dancing flames that they set alight almost anything 
flammable to satisfy their curiosity - sometimes even burning them-selves in their 
absent-mindedness. In the remote regions of space on rimworlds, where civilization 
is usually found at the end of a rifle, these pyromaniacs are largely considered 
scourges of humanity and dealt with as quickly - usually terminally - as possible.
      Junkyard Mechanic
      Trash accumulation is a serious issue for urbworlds, as many governments or 
corporations can simply choose to import more material off-world thanks to 
humanity's expansion into space. Junkyards the size of small cities can appear and 
are sometimes kept in check by enterprising citizens, who are too poor to have any 
other choice but to dig through the refuse for anything usable. Scrap that would 
otherwise be deemed too expensive to recycle or salvage is thoroughly picked over 
by these "urban vultures".
      Merchandise from junkyard mechanics varies from cosmetic items to 
serviceable vehicles or rusty mechanoids that are sold to citizens who can't afford to 
buy new. Provided one knows what they're doing - or has a passion to discover 
themselves - a modest living can be made in these wastes. However, It is dangerous 
and frequent medical check-ups are needed if anyone wants to continue working 
there for long.
      Mech War Veteran
      Archaeologists, explorers and the occasional unlucky colonist have uncovered 
many ancient ruins and vaults, usually containing ancient cryptopods with unknown 
cargo. Some have stood otherwise empty, some with random priceless artifacts, and 
others still with nests of insectoids looking for a place to reproduce. Usually they 
contain some amounts of ancient mechanoids, hard-wired with a devolved code to 
secure the area with lethal force. Scholars have estimated these locations to be 
hundreds, if not thousands, of years old. Some of the occupants of these pods have 
even been recovered - willing or not - and sent off for questioning.
      From what is understood, an ancient civilization was engaged in a war with an 
equally ancient sect of mechanoids, the war lasting for so long that no recovered 
subjects can remember - or even care anymore - why they were fighting to begin 
with. These same mechanoids can be found trawling through the far reaches of 
human-occupied space, deploying clusters from autonomous ships to places of 
potential strategic value. They are a major force in keeping the development of 
rimworlds in check, for they adapt their strength to their target.
      The war between the Ancients and the mechanoids seems to be one that has 
continued for millenia and will probably only see its end when every single member 
of either side is annihilated. Both sides are brutal, unforgiving and without mercy. For 
them, there is only war.
      Mechanoid Hacker
      Having companions on glitterworlds can be somewhat difficult, as the 
environment is so alien, bizarre, and lacking in nature that traditional animals find it 
too stressful to live in. Because of a person's desire for social interaction and 
companionship, a specific market has formed to provide for this niche.
      Prior to the 20th century, electronic companions had been developed to 
provide a basic form of companionship. As the years and decades went on, these 
electronic companions were given robotic forms to inhabit which had been met with 
mixed responses. On glitterworlds however, they are mechanoid companions that 
can be in any number of desired configurations. A friend for a reclusive child could 
be another mechanoid with a childlike shape, or even a large dog that can both 
gently nuzzle and incapacitate intruders.
      Various methods are used to allow owners to maintain control over the 
mechanoids such as verbal commands and control bracelets. Certain companies 
also offer comprehensive after-market modifications to allow the robotic companion 
to grow and evolve with the needs of the owner. Whilst certain parental protections 
are put in place to avoid any unwanted or dangerous modifications, that didn't stop 
some youngsters from wanting more - simply because someone else told them not 
to.
      Perfect Scientist
      In the pursuit of acquiring knowledge and furthering humanity's understanding 
of the strange and bizarrely alien, numerous scientists throughout the ages have 
experimented with (sometimes illegal) recreational drugs to expand the mind. At 
least that's what they said afterwards; a decent majority of them were just looking for 
a good time.
      As implants became more complex and capable of won-drous things, certain 
researchers were interested in getting a boost to their understanding of how the 
world works. Most of these stemmed from the frustration that the archotech AIs were 
capable of producing things that completely bewildered even the smartest minds of 
humanity. But for others it was an excuse to get government-sponsored access to 
the psychedelic mushrooms. With the advancements coming out of glitterworlds, it's 
hard to argue with the results.
      Voyager Child
      Encounters with archotech planets are considered so unusual that most 
reports are simply put down as simple superstition brought on by delirium from 
isolation, hunger and cryptosleep. Those who claim to pass by these worlds are 
unable to identify them or describe what happened during approach. The only cases 
that have been taken seriously are ships that - for unknown reasons - end up with 
cargo containing bizarre and unexplainable technology but so far there have been no 
substantial reports of a ship successfully interacting with these supposed advanced 
civilizations. It is also posited, by some of the more suspicious individuals, that the 
information is censored by the archotechs themselves who simply want to live 
without interference.
      Shipcracker
      Due to a lack of FTL technology, ship-to-ship combat relied on brutal alpha 
strikes in order to eliminate the opponent and/or disable any outgoing 
communications. As most military fleets were composed of multiple ships with 
different roles, certain adaptations of Terran combat maneuvers started cropping up. 
A tactic commonly employed against a superior opponent is to deploy a specialized 
marine unit known as Hull Cracking and Ship Infiltration, aka shipcrackers. However 
it is extremely stressful and so numerous rations and extended shore leave are 
offered as incentives.
      Shipcrackers are catapulted toward enemy ships and then use a variety of 
equipment to slow down and attach to the hull. Equipped in Cataphract armor set to 
prevent detection from enemy systems, self-propulsion was to only be used in critical 
circumstances. Militarised adaptations of astro-miner equipment - such as shoulder-
mounted plasmacutters - were employed to rapidly breach the ship's outlying armor 
once an entrance to critical systems was discovered. Numerous additional 
shipcrackers would maneuver to different zones in order to maximise chaos and 
damage before the communication systems could report to its sister ships. 