
      PSYCASTING
      The concept of Archotech psychic generators is widely accepted but poorly 
understood. Psychic drone, the most common form of psychic disturbance, is 
capable of driving a human of a particular gender to madness or a variety of animals 
into a manhunting rage, emulating the effects of temporary scaria. It has been 
hypothesized that these psychic effects work by directly affecting the brain waves of 
different species, similar to the effect achieved through the controlled usage of 
infrasound. The archotechs have mastered this technology and are also capable of 
directly affecting the physical world.
      Through inexplicable means, these methods of influence can be inherited by 
humans through the use of complex machinery or rituals connecting to psychically-
connected lifeforms. The generally accepted explanation is that the person doesn't 
directly influence anything, but rather "convinces" a relatively-nearby archotech 
source to influence the world in a particular manner. Any attempts at studying the 
phenomenon are unsuccessful, much like a magic picture, however it is without a 
doubt an incredibly mysterious power that has proved a vital, central role to the 
existence - and potentially the downfall - of the Shattered Empire.
      Anima & Animus
      Much in the way that organisms on Terra evolved to use the abundant natural 
resource oxygen, life also finds a way on other planets. On rimworlds, the psychic 
noise emitted by archotech engines has developed a new type of lifeform that can 
nourish itself from this energy with remarkable efficiency. This network of energy is 
also capable of permeating through space and affects the natural order by causing 
manhunting rages in animals or intense psychic drones that drive humans of a 
particular gender crazy. It has been posited that Anima lifeforms are the reason why 
the psychic noise has such an extensive effect and they are being expressly 
influenced to serve the Archotech's purpose.

      The most well-known case is the Anima tree, a rare tree with unusually warm 
and skin-smooth bark and infused with numerous bioluminescent microorganisms 
that seem to store energy.
      
      This is reinforced by the existence of the Anima colossus, the trees upon 
which nourish their host with converted psychic energy and produce huge Anima 
pearls instead of Anima grass. Chrysalis covered seeds, the Anima pearls act as an 
energy store allowing the tree to instantly sprout forth in any area, regardless of 
sustainability. As they are dependent on the influence of tribalistic humans, it has 
been hypothesized that the precursors to these trees were tended to by their 
ancestors and encouraged to develop to aid Psycasting.
      Scientists have proposed that this symbiotic relationship is intended by the 
Archotechs themselves as a way to ensure their psychic network is maintained with 
minimal maintenance and at distances beyond their fastest ships. Further evidence 
supporting this is that Anima lifeforms are disturbed by nearby artificial structures as 
it hampers the flow of energy, actively discouraging those caretakers from 
developing technologically and industrializing a perfectly good psychic relay. The 
exceptions to this are Animus structures, such as Animus stones - inanimate objects 
delicately carved to prevent hampering this flow and also amplify it in a certain way. 
Most people that aren't familiar with the traditions behind Anima rituals simply see 
these stones as interesting, but ultimately boring, carvings.
      
      Eltex
      Through the many years of psycasting that the Shattered Empire benefited 
from, they have managed to liberate large amounts of a material from looting 
archotech engines that is capable of augmenting their already considerable abilities. 
This material, called Eltex, is capable of assisting a psycaster in numerous ways. It 
can improve the 
      user's sensitivity to psychic effects, improve how much they can exert their 
influence before suffering from backlash, and reduce the amount of time needed 
before they can do so again. 
      Because these threads have minimal effects when embedded in armour whilst 
having far superior effects in equipment that acts as a singular point of focus, such 
as a staff or skullcap, the empire's main psycasters travel with bodyguards. It is also 
presumed that this equipment is vital in performing Bestowing Ceremonies - 
specifically the manufacturing of Psylink Neuroformers - as the other explanations 
are that either the Shattered Empire has a massive stockpile or are regularly trading 
with archotechs for their technology.
      
      Psyfocus & Neural Heat
      Whilst the majority of effort required in linking to an archotech comes in the 
form of neural heat - backlash caused by becoming a quasi-antenna for the 
archotech's influence - an important activity for any Psycaster is to maintain their 
Psyfocus. Psyfocus is a method of describing how a psycaster organizes their 
thoughts to maintain a singular focus without distractions, as the more disorganized 
their thoughts are the less complex their influence can be exerted. As such, it is 
necessary to meditate regularly with a greater degree of focus requiring increasingly 
frequent bouts of seclusion.
      These acts of meditation aren't connected to the psycasters mood, but are 
instead tied to their personality which will then influence what would be the most 
beneficial as a focus point, such as fascinations with fire, death, art, or even a feeling 
of superiority. Very few psycasters actually prefer having simplicity. For tribals, they 
instead have a preference for the natural order of things, reaching their prime in the 
midst of nature.
      Each link with an archotech in order to psycast doesn't consume much focus; 
instead the majority of effort comes from dissipating the neural heat. There are a few 
exceptions that are for very specific or devastating tasks, but usually a high level of 
psyfocus is only beneficial if high complexity psycasts are needed. Those who have 
difficulty dispersing neural heat typically find it much easier if they have a source of 
pain they can concentrate on to help accelerate the process. It's not unusual for 
psycasters to intentionally injure themselves in intense situations, such as stabbing 
their thighs or pulling off their fingernails.
      
      Psylink
      So far there have only been two reliable methods of establishing a psylink. 
The first method is a one-use consumable psylink neuroformer that anyone can use. 
The other is the quasi-renewable method of establishing a connection with a 
psychically-connected lifeform. The second method however has numerous 
limitations, primarily that only a local who has grown up in a tribal village - partaking 
in numerous mystical ceremonies - is fully familiar with the process, much like the 
difference between brewing tea from a tea bag and a full tea ceremony by a learned 
master.
      In establishing or reinforcing a psylink, each occurrence requires 
progressively more effort than the last. On the first usage, numerous symmetrical 
neural pathways are formed in the host's brain across each hemisphere. Afterwards, 
each use reinforces these pathways and penetrates deeper into the brain. Roughly 
at the 20th level of progression the pathways have fully permeated the brain down to 
the individual neurons and the patterns - which tend to squirm if focused on - are 
similar to those that can be found on the Anima tree. Should the psycaster wish to 
progress past this, they are only left with the spinal column's limited capacity and the 
nerve endings throughout their body. However, these are extremely laborious in 
augmenting and most people die of old age before they have even finished with their 
spinal nerves. An interesting observation has been made on such masters, as the 
petrified forms of their brains long after death start to resemble the material Eltex.
      The psylink neuroformer is placed over the eyes through which it connects to 
the brain where it begins restructuring. In the case of an Anima tree, it requires 
frequent meditation in order to strengthen the psychic link to an Archotech which 
results in the growth of Anima grass. This is then later used in a tribalistic ceremony 
to achieve the same functionality. Although the neuroformer and grass disintegrate 
upon use, the Shattered Empire uses unusual methods in order to com-bine the 
effects of several Neuroformers in one go.
      This puts a great deal of strain on the brain - called neural heat - as a form of 
resistance to the influence and as such a person with greater psychic sensitivity 
experiences less resistance than otherwise. There are some special psycasts that 
instead only require a particular amount of psyfocus, however they scramble the 
user's brain and disturb the harmonious focus they have managed to maintain. 
Overexertion leads to an accumulation of stress and can also cause the person to 
lose consciousness.
      
      When a user wants to commit to a psycast, they essentially convert their mind 
into a communication relay through which the archotech can exert their in?uence.
      
      Psycaster paths
      There is almost as many different psycaster paths as there are psycasters. 