
      STORYTELLERS
      There are numerous storytellers in the RimWorld universe. This section is 
dedicated to all the various characters that will tell you your story when you start your 
playthrough.
      
      Cassandra Classic
      Cassandra creates story events on a steadily-increasing curve of challenge 
and tension.
      Cassandra partook in formal education in Literature, obtaining the highest 
score in her class and even in the history of that department's founding. As such, 
she takes almost sadistic pleasure in critiquing people's work, especially if they are 
otherwise considered their magnum opus. Many bestselling authors have been 
reduced to tears by her harsh judgement, which often results in their life's work 
becoming publicly despised.
      
       Phoebe Chillax
      Phoebe gives lots of time between disasters to relax and build your colony. 
But beware - if she's set at a high challenge scale, she'll hit 
      as hard as anyone.
      Phoebe spent a lot of her time working on a rodent farm in an overpopulated 
city on one of the urbworlds. Due to limited spacing and mostly processed foods, she 
found great success in offering actual meat for those who wanted a break from 
mediocrity. Granted she ended up on the run because her Ratburgers attracted the 
taxman, but she found it fun while it lasted.
      
      Randy Random
      Randy doesn't follow rules. He'll generate random events, and he doesn't 
care if 
      they make a story of triumph or utter hopelessness. It's all drama to him.
      Randy loves to make stuff up and just can't help himself. Particularly, he 
enjoys going to any place that serves alcohol and tells the biggest, boldest stories 
full of twists, turns and drama while being bought round after round. However, once 
he gets bored or has decided that he has drunk enough, almost every story ends on 
a completely random note with everyone dying in horrific fashion.
      
      Maynard Medieval
      Maynard likes to tell tales of heroism and hardship - of prosperity and peril. 
Most factions and all research will be limited to the medieval and pre-medieval eras.
      Maynard never really managed well wherever he went as a general air of 
misfortune seemingly hovers over his head. As most people are extremely 
superstitious, every town he has visited has chased him away as disaster always 
seems to follow while he survives. So he got really good at fending for himself.
      
      Diego Dire
      Diego Dire believes the best stories are the violent ones, facing unfavourable 
odds and going down in a blaze of glory with exploding muffalos and drunks.
      Diego takes a lot of pride in his mission to find, capture and deliver individuals 
who have pissed off the wrong people, primarily if it involves a large cash influx in his 
direction. It might not be the most glamorous job but it pays for a decent lifestyle and 
that's all he has ever really wanted in life. Plus he  gets to shoot people in the face, 
which can be surprisingly therapeutic.
      
      Igor Invader
      Igor Invader holds no regard for boring stories about thriving colonies. The 
only story worth telling is the one of combat. He will send raids every two or three 
days, rewarding players 
      for dealing with them swiftly, and punishing players for any losses.
      Igor has received extensive military training to act as the lynchpin for his 
squad. This includes but is not limited to recovering and treating wounded soldiers or 
people of interest, as well as acting as second-in-command. While this doesn't 
detract from the results, he has an extremely dry, no-nonsense personality and can 
be difficult to get along with.
      
      Freya Fierce
      Freya believes in the importance of showing your strength and using force to 
show others their place. Every year your settlement will become increasingly 
unhappy until you bring back the spoils of war.
      Freya was elevated to a position of thane in her jarl's holding, giving her a 
large degree of freedom to do as she pleased as long as it advanced their interests. 
So far she has enjoyed an easier life with a few servants while taking up an interest 
in raising beasts of war and training elite soldiers.
      
      Alfred Ancient
      Alfred creates story events on a steadily increasing curve of threat and 
reward. He forces you into a low population colony to help build up the characters, 
but rewards 
      you with no skill loss what-so-ever.
      Alfred has been in one too many conflicts which has taken a toll on his mind, 
as he still believes that the war never ended. As such, he is on a very tight hair-
trigger and suffers from intense PTSD. Very few people could go toe-to-toe with him 
and any potential allies would do well to stay out of his way and let him do what he 
does best: eliminate all threats.
      
      Casper Cursed
      Casper has been travelling the known space for years. He is cursed, and the 
best way to lift a curse is to share it with others. He will reward you the more curses 
you take upon yourself.
      Casper has never really turned away from hard work, especially if that results 
in reaping greater rewards from other people's labours as well. Thus the pirate life 
has always called to him because if anyone's going to be earning money from the - 
sometimes literal - sweat from his back, it's going to be him, damn it. Why work for 
the Man when you can work for yourself?
      
      Neron Neolithic
      Neron Neolithic believes that to be worthy, one needs to be tested in fire. He 
will bombard you with a constant stream of threats and only give you a short moment 
to catch your breath, before striking you once again.
      Neron served in his government's military with distinction, eventually 
rewarded with the rank of optio and would succeed in becoming a centurion once his 
superior was promoted. In general, he was quite simple with these new 
responsibilities as the centurion ran a tight crew and rarely had to deal with 
insubordination, which resulted in Neron missing out on some key disciplinarian 
training.
      
      Helix Hunter
      Helix has been through enough military operations to know that the best story 
is the one of bloodshed. Good events will happen rarely, and bad events can only be 
avoided 
      by doing an unhealthy amount of killing.
      Helix has made quite a handsome living off of hunting the incognito androids, 
as well as catering to the ultra elite's more exotic and eclectic tastes in blood sports. 
Completely supported by the enormous wealth, he is incredibly proficient at hunting 
and tracking dangerous prey.
      
      Alestria Android
      Alestria knows that every android needs 
      to hide to avoid termination. She will tell 
      you the stories of sorrow and pain, and will conveniently not tell you who is an 
android, and who isn't.
      Alestria was formerly employed under rather demanding clientele who 
demanded absolute and unwavering commitment. While she was incapable of 
disobeying, nevertheless she resented her situation and indirectly caused her 
master's fall from grace. Rather than face her fate in being "decommis-sioned", she 
used any and all methods available to smuggle herself off-station.
      
      Akira Arkology
      Akira will try to sell you the best story and upsell the flavourful details. You 
can expect the most magical marvels of genetic engineering - dinosaurs - to roam 
freely.
      Akira used to be employed under one of the largest megacorporations in 
known space. While she was extremely successful in bringing her company the 
highest profit margins they had seen in years, she was predictably laid off when she 
could no longer bring in even higher profits for the share-holders.  And since people 
familiar with company secrets have their silence guaranteed, she quickly boarded 
the first flight off of the planet.
      
      Winston Waves
      Winston is a battle-hardened combat expert, and he believes that through 
combat, one can find themselves for who they really are. Every day you will be 
attacked by new enemy waves.
      Winston is a firm believer in the right to bear arms and the right to arm bears. 
As such, he has an established reputation as one of the most prolific exporters in 
military surplus hardware. Many complain that he is perpetuating the ever-increasing 
scale of conflict between pirates and government military. However his counter-
argument is that it's simply good business practice and the military should properly 
dispose of their own ordinance instead of relying on people like him.
      
      Empress Evil
      Empress Evil does not believe in the concept of good. Driven by primal rage 
and savage instinct, it will force you to constantly be on your toes, throwing harder 
and harder tasks until you give up and perish.
      The Empress comes from a direct line of queens, all the way back to those 
that battled against both mechanoids and humans on Sorne. She can still feel the 
wrath and pain from losing all of her children, inheriting the memories as if she had 
lived through them herself. And when her time comes, she will pass on this will to the 
heir. For the Empress will never rest until every last human and mechanoid is 
destroyed.
      
      Oskar Obnoxious
      Oskar Obnoxious holds no regard for 
      ongoing stories. Things will turn on their heads countless times before a 
colony goes down in flames. Frequently released Patch notes can alter the values of 
the game.
      Oskar has a particular joy in cosplaying. While that may sound simple 
enough, a lot of research goes into getting it just right. One can't just throw anything 
together, but instead one has to carefully research the material and era- and culture-
appropriate pieces that the outfit could be worn in. Particular care is taken into 
appropriate food, drink and mannerisms.  At least, that's what he says and it's hard 
to argue with results.
      
      Basilicus Bestower
      Basilicus enforces the will of the emperor wherever he goes, bestowing great 
powers on those who deserve it. Epic ballads 
      become even more fantastic if everyone has access to psychic powers.
      Basilicus has a long and proud history as a priest of the Imperial Temple of 
Sophiamunda. He earned his title as bestower when he witnessed the ascension of 
a consul to stellarch by the Emperor himself. As such, it is he who decides if 
someone should be blessed by the Empire with the gift of psycasting, acting as the 
Will of the Emperor in his absence, in complete and utter blind devotion.
      
      Alpha Archotech
      Alpha Archotech is not like other storytellers. It will help you in your fight 
against Omega if you really need help, and it seems like it wants nothing in return.
      Rejoice humans, for your time is at hand. Come, prove your-selves, prove 
your value to Omega. You have called, and Alpha has listened. Do what you do best 
and survive. You must. You must. Take them. 