      DRUGS
      Over the course of years humanity has lost itself to many new drugs - 
some synthetic in nature, while others carefully cultivated through centuries of 
experimentation on natural hallucinogenic plants and mushrooms.
      
      Substance F
      A curious case of a serious drug mixed with morbid humour, Substance F is 
an anti-cancer medication usually taken by patients that have suffered from 
excessive radiation poisoning. The recovery process is largely unpleasant but has a 
high success rate, with an added side effect of turning urine and feces fluorescent 
during the treatment process. Because such jokes apparently never get old, 
teenagers who have to take the drug describe themselves as "about to drop a big F" 
along with "pray for me, lads". The original name never caught on and has been lost 
to history.
      One unintended side-effect was a harmless psychotropic alteration on 
subjects without cancer, the results of which would stay in their system until properly 
expelled - still highly fluorescent. This resulted in the market being flooded with 
cheap knock-offs laced with other chemicals that could affect bowel movement. Due 
to it being a threat to patients who actually needed the drug, large scale task forces 
are routinely organized to keep people safe. Numerous gang wars and violent police 
raids have caused some to wonder if the drug was actually worth the resulting 
carnage.
      Luciferium
      Biosculpting pods are a true wonder when it comes to injury treatment, as 
they are capable of treating not only fresh wounds but any permanent injury besides 
missing limbs. However the limitations of the pods - such as biotuning to a user for a 
year - means they are a non-viable solution to mass treatment of a given population. 
For this, numerous researchers on glitterworlds began development of a 
considerably more portable form of treatment through the use of mechanites. 
Intended for only the most serious cases or richest clients, the mechanites are 
housed inside pills that slowly heal the host over time upon ingestion.
      The limitations stem from preventing mechanites from reproducing and 
overtaking the host. This modification to the mechanoids' design means that after 
several days they will start to lose cohesion, convinced that the host's body is the 
cause of impaired functions. In desperation to fix the problem the mechanites will 
start attacking the body, manipulating the nervous system in order to remove 
whatever is inhibiting their functionality. This can be prevented by taking a new dose 
of pills as the new mechanites dismantle the malfunctioning ones before starting 
their own decay. This unfortunate side effect earned the medicine the name 
Luciferium - "Devil's Bargain" - and has found popularity in the criminal underworld 
for those looking for disposable super soldiers.
      Alcohol
      The fermentation of fruits and vegetables into an intoxicating yet poisonous 
substance has been a part of human history for countless millennia; even other 
mammalians have been recorded to purposefully let fallen fruit rot in order to eat 
later as a fun pastime. Humanity has refined this process into an artform, with many 
different methods of refining alcohol that vary based on the ingredient and the end 
product. An entire industry has been created around the best way to make the 
perfect alcohol using different aging techniques and equipment.
      Alcohol comes in many different flavours and strengths varying from a mild 
cider to 100+ proof concoctions that can strip the paint off of your shuttle. While 
alcohol is considered a cheap and easy recreation, it also has the downside of 
causing many health issues and creating alcoholics. 
      Ambrosia
      The origins of ambrosia are shrouded in mystery as sprouts of several plants 
appear randomly and so far no one has been able to predict its occurrence. Some 
hypotheses have been formed due to its appearance limited to rimworlds - the 
aftereffects of terraforming never truly fade away and pockets of energy mutate into 
these divinely delicious fruits. What is known is that they taste wonderful and give 
the user a mild chemical high. Additionally, when fermented into an alcohol - 
depending on its age - the potent liquor has a mes-merising colour and seemingly 
refracts any source of light that radiates upon it.
      Neutroamine
      The capacity for various industries to make useful products out of leftover 
materials in order to maximise profit and reduce waste disposal can lead to 
incredible moments of ingenuity. Whilst the exact method of refinement is kept secret 
under intergalactic patenting laws, it is possible to approximate legitimate 
neutroamine through the processing of rendered animal fat. This synthetic precursor 
chemical has no function by itself, but if processed correctly - even without additives 
- can turn into many beneficial types of medicine and augment the effects of principal 
ingredients.
      One useful form of refined neutroamine is penoxycyline, a preventative drug 
that acts as a temporary vaccine for some of the deadlier diseases in regions without 
proper medical facilities. 
      It is also a primary ingredient in industrial-grade medical kits as it can improve 
the medicinal qualities of herbal remedies. On more advanced worlds, consumption 
is high due to its use in the STEM sector as a drug that helps students and 
professionals get by with less sleep. Because of the stressful nature of this industry, 
many users become addicted and end up performing worse than if they simply 
rested regularly.
Psychoid Leaves
      As an evolution of the coca plant that can be grown in practically any climate, 
the psychoid plant is beloved by many drug enterprises. Whilst tribals use a simple 
method of brewing the leaves for an energising tea, more industrious consumers 
prefer to refine the psychoactive components to get a stronger high. Those who 
either don't care or actively encour-age an addiction to their product can choose to 
only partially refine the leaves into a flakey substance to be smoked.
      Something that the military has been interested in however, is when the 
refinement is taken even further to produce a snortable fine white powder. 
Throughout history, soldiers have taken similar substances in order to forcibly boost 
their performance in dire situations where time is limited but it was the development 
of neutroamine that truly took this drug to its full potential as a non-recreational 
combat stimulant. During the early days of ship-to-ship combat, Space Marines 
would inject this new drug in order to boost their already impressive capabilities and 
ensure that they fought to their last breath. Needless to say, numerous captains 
objected to its use as the soldiers would become considerably more reckless and 
often be killed in action.
	Smokeleaf & Tobacco
      Smokeleaf is an incredibly popular drug on rimworlds thanks largely to tribes 
and their ease of manufacturing. The main effect one gets from smoking is a 
reduction of stress - as it helps relax the body - and a willingness to eat whatever 
seems vaguely edible. Some tribespeople even partake in large rituals involving 
inhaling the fumes of a burning totem fashioned from wood and smokeleaf as an 
opportunity to connect with nature and enjoy life as it is at that moment. People of a 
slightly more "refined" palette usually prefer to smoke tobacco as it can suppress 
hunger and stress, as well as making them feel "different from the primitives" despite 
the obvious similarities.
      If used in excess, the smoke particles can deteriorate the protective 
membrane of the mouth, throat and lungs of the user, causing the development of 
asthma and carcinoma. Although smokeleaf has a lower rate of addiction than 
tobacco, both are addictive and have long-term effects on the user. As the user's 
body becomes more tolerant of the drugs, the desired effects have a shorter duration 
and thus compels the smoker to imbibe more often. Withdrawal symptoms of both 
tobacco and smokeleaf include headaches, increased appetite, insomnia, lower 
concentration and increased irritability. 