
      WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION
      Numerous civilisations across the universe try to perfect their super-weapons 
in a wicked arms race. While rarely used, these tools of mass destruction serve one 
purpose only: to deter any potential aggression from other civilisations. This section 
will describe the most powerful weapons the galaxy has to offer.
      Structural Disintegration Bacterium
      Structural disintegration bacterium is a bioweapon designed for one purpose: 
to consume everything. Everything in its path gets digested and results in the SDB 
reproducing asexually in direct relation to how energy dense its food source is. Once 
the bacteria starts running out of things to eat, they will start to eat each other and, 
eventually, themselves. The SDB is a failed attempt at creating a bacteria capable of 
consuming minerals and excreting refined ores.
      Antigrain Missile
      An even deadlier implementation of the antigrain warhead, the antigrain 
missile is an intercontinental ballistic missile combined with bunker buster 
penetration capabilities. Instead of losing most of the blast force to the atmosphere, 
the explosion instead annihilates huge swathes of terrain, along with causing 
landslides and earthquakes. Its reputation has earned it the nickname "Mountain 
Remover".
      Weaponized Scaria
      Whilst scaria is a relatively rare disease that is genetically inherited among 
various animal groups, weaponized scaria is an attempt to forcibly activate the 
disease that lies dormant in almost all rimworld-based fauna. However, humans 
aren't immune to the effects and will either begin tearing apart their fellows, or their 
own organs, with their bare hands. The strain is contained in a sealed 
aerodynamically-shaped capsule which can be configured to rupture when passing 
below a certain elevation. Once it ruptures the contents become gaseous and infects 
all breathing creatures, only eliminated once all affected animals are properly 
incinerated.
      Neurotoxin Bomb
      Created to kill all living creatures, the neurotoxin bomb suffuses an area with 
a powerful and fast acting neurotoxin. Upon inhalation, the subject loses motor 
function as the neurotoxin attacks the brain cells and disrupts the signal to the entire 
nervous system. As the autonomic nervous system shuts down, the affected user 
loses the ability to breathe and their heart stops, resulting in death. Depending on 
weather patterns, the bomb site can remain deadly for hours.
      Lethal Psychic Drone
      The somewhat-familiar psychic drone is described as a source of foreign 
voices, ranging from incessant whispers to unceasing screams that can drive a 
person to madness. The lethal variant has the effect of liquidising the brain of a 
particular gender whilst making others violently ill. Psychic sensitivity plays a big 
factor in being able to resist these effects as there is no other way unless fully 
unconscious.
      Space Lens
      A space lens is a geostationary orbital satellite system designed to assist 
space telescopes in observing star systems throughout human-occupied space. It 
has been repurposed to converge incoming solar energies into a singular, focused 
beam capable of targeting the far side of its orbiting body, raising the temperatures 
at the site of impact to be high enough to melt stone and vaporize organic matter.
      Mechanoid Swarm Targeter
      A mechanoid swarm targeter is a control server that is used to direct and 
control hundreds of swarm bots capable of semi-autonomous behaviour. These 
drones are able to cover a location and completely extract all the resources of an 
area. The intelligence of the swarm increases with the number of servers - freeing up 
software for more complex tasks - but care should be taken because should the 
servers reach critical mass, the drones will become fully autonomous and capable of 
self-replication.
      Gauss Cannon
      Technically a rail launcher that can be loaded with variable payload munitions, 
the gauss cannon is a precision artillery system designed to accurately hit targets on 
a global scale. Commonly armed with thermobaric warheads capable of rendering a 
city uninhabitable, they can also be equipped with chemical or self-ablative 
warheads. Since the projectile doesn't emit an energy signature, they are incredibly 
difficult to defend against.
      Weaponized Computer Virus
      A weaponized computer virus can be uploaded to remote targets through 
various communication systems and used to overwrite and lock the navigation 
systems of an orbiting spaceship, forcing it to crash into a predetermined location. 
Alternatively, they can be used to either overload or override the power grid and 
security systems of a targeted settlement. Simply put, anything that relies on a 
computer system with an uplink terminal is vulnerable, unless it has an equally 
powerful - or superior - firewall. 