
      PLANETS AND LOCATIONS
      There are various different planet types in the universe of RimWorld each of 
them unique in its own way. This section will explain various types of planets 
established in the universe, as well as how they are categorized.
      Dead worlds
      Planets which have not been significantly contacted by humans. Generally not 
inhabitable. All planets are like this before people arrive for the first time.
      Ice worlds
      Planets locked in the cold grip of an ice age, covered almost entirely in 
swathes of frozen sea, with glaciers kilometers tall. Perhaps they supported life 
before, perhaps they will support life again, one thing is certain - it will take centuries 
before anyone will be able to find that out.
      Animal worlds
      Planets with no people. Either everyone died, or the planet was seeded with 
plant and animal life by terraforming robots and nobody arrived. These planets can 
appear in numerous different shapes and forms - gigantic oceans spanning the 
whole planet, filled to the brim with aquatic life, or a planet covered in grasslands and 
rainforests, ruled by dinosaurs brought back from extinction.
      Medieval worlds
      Similar to Earth from the agricultural revolution until the industrial revolution. 
Social structures are usually feudal or imperial. Planets can stay in this state for 
millennia.
      Steam worlds
      Similar to Earth in the 19th century. Often this state is short-lived, as societies 
develop into midworlds, but it can be very stretched out depending on culture and 
government structure.
      Industrial worlds
      Similar to Earth in the 20th century, Industrial worlds are undergoing an 
industrial revolution, and are often the most polluted planets covered in factories and 
coal plants.
      Midworlds
      Worlds whose people have mastered flight, but not cheap interplanetary 
travel. Earth is in this stage in the 21st century.
      Urbworlds
      Super-high density planets dominated by cities. Urbworlds' population growth 
outstripped their social and technological development, so they tend to be 
overcrowded, polluted and violent places. The people here are often callous towards 
strangers. This is often the outcome for midworlds that see their demographic 
transition into lower birth reversed by dysgenic reproduction patterns.
      Coreworlds
      Advanced human societies that united under one governing body, coreworlds 
are a healthy mix of urbworlds' production focus and high population with 
glitterworlds' care for the environment and technological progress. Coreworlds are 
not entirely covered in megacities, with nature reserves and conservation centers 
playing a crucial role in maintaining a healthy ecosystem for fauna to prosper and 
flora to carry on the air scrubbing function.
      Glitterworlds
      The most technologically advanced societies that can be led by humans. 
Swaddled in comforts by the strong arms of technology, glitterworlds are the peak of 
recognizable human society in terms of art, health, and generous human rights. 
Common people from these planets often lack grit and are very trusting in people 
and technology.
      Farming worlds
      Every galactic civilization needs a steady supply of food. Farming worlds are 
devoted pre-dominantly to farming. Not necessarily technologically backwards, with 
some using automated machinery that grows and harvests the multitude of crops, 
farming worlds are in fact carefully guarded due to their strategic importance. Many 
galactic governments have fallen before simply due to an enemy blockading their 
sources of food. 
      Rimworlds
      Planets lacking in strong central government and low in population density. 
These places tend to hover around the industrial level of technology or lower. 
Because they're not homogenized by a central government, they tend to see a lot of 
interaction between people of different technology levels, as travelers crash land or 
ancient communities stumble out of their cryptosleep vaults. These planets are often 
at the rim of known space, hence the name.
      Prison worlds
      Back in the time when prison complexes on urbworlds and glitterworlds were 
overflowing, someone came up with a brilliant idea to ship all the prisoners onto a 
different planet. Prison worlds can range from far away, run down colonies, to huge 
prison complexes on local moons. Some of them have an actual prisoner processing 
infrastructure, while others are just desolate planets, where prisoners are left to their 
own devices.
      Toxic worlds
      Worlds destroyed by pollution, chemical or nuclear warfare, but still habitable 
at a low level, with sufficient technology.
      Glass worlds
      Worlds utterly destroyed by high-energy weapons of mass destruction. 
They're nick-named 'marbles' because their surfaces have been "glassed". Nuclear 
weapons aren't enough to glass a planet, so this level of destruction is rare. On 
some of these worlds, people can walk outdoors for a time without dying. None of 
them harbor permanent life bigger than a paramecium.
      Transcendent worlds
      It's a stretch to call these entities worlds, since they resemble giant computers 
more than they resemble planets. The mechanics of these planets is mysterious, but 
many scholars believe transcendents are the outcome a sovereign archotech 
decides to incorporate a whole planet into itself.
      Trash planets
      A planet-wide junkyard and a dumping ground for nearby glitterworlds and 
urbworlds, trash planets have their own ecosystems and social structure, where 
scavengers fight to the death over things that others found without any value.
      Other worlds
      Beyond these categories, there are many exceptional planets in strange 
states created by their peculiar social and technological evolutions. Given the scale 
and age of the universe, there is a lot of time and space for a lot of very strange 
situations to develop. 