
      KNOWN LOCATIONS
      There is a small number of known locations. These locations have been 
established in RimWorld lore via mentions in different descriptions, backstories and 
the lore primer.
      Lutuni
      A rainforest paradise and a glitterworld tourist destination, Lutuni is governed 
by an entertainment mogul and protected by legions upon legions of enforcers. It 
contains many interesting amenities, such as augmentation clinics, hyper-yachts for 
the extremely wealthy, and a zero-G stadium. Above Lutuni is the Lutuni Corporate 
Space Station connected to the planet using a space elevator complex. Tourist 
guides, zero-G performers, Luciferium distributors and celebrities will always find a 
place to make a quick buck on the surface, while shuttle pilots can earn bank on the 
space station. It's on Lutuni that vibro-knives earned their title as the elegant 
weapon, as glitterworld elite likes to carry them with them despite never engaging in 
any fights. Rumors say that somewhere in the underground research complexes, 
scientists of big mega-corporations have developed an unstoppable structural 
disintegration bacterium, but until a break-out event happens, there is no proof that 
can tie anyone to it.
      Atura Station
      An orbital drydock with a construction yard led by a powerful crime syndicate 
from the Main Control Centre. Thugs are used across the station to extort civilians 
and 'provide protection', and more often than not their tasers and stun batons are set 
too high. The station consists of numerous shuttle docks, a large manufacturing ring 
focused on spacecraft production, as well as a residential ring where workers and 
civilians live. A large power centre provides energy for the whole station. Most often 
seen places of employment is the construction drone operator, but there is plenty of 
opportunity for test pilots and manager positions. Large foundries with advanced 3D 
printers also need technicians. Atura station is known for its common use of arc 
welders - which is a powerful welding tool that uses an arc of electricity to weld two 
metals together. The station is also utilising a vast amount of radio-controlled 
welding drones for operations dangerous enough not to send human 'volunteers' 
into.
      Xanides
      A small strip-mining planet with a thin atmo-sphere, Xanides has been 
purchased by one of the urbworld mega-corporations focused on mining. The planet 
doesn't have too many remarkable locations - mostly it's covered in strip mines and 
refineries. The atmosphere does not support life, and the planet is governed from a 
large oxygen depot, making all workers reliant on the benefactors. Miners, 
supervisors, technicians and life support specialists all meet three times a day at the 
nutrient paste cafeteria to trade stories about normally boring everyday routine. Part 
of their equipment is electro-batons and blasting charges.
      Rogia
      Much can be said about Rogia, but everyone agrees it can be beautiful. Vast 
windy prairies contrasting with towering glitter-tech cities on the horizon are a sight to 
behold. Unfortunately, Rogia is rotten to the core. It is run by a corrupt bureaucracy 
system of two-faced, penny-pinching administrators, cowering behind their bionic 
guards, protected by weaponized computer viruses from any form of espionage. A 
gigantic space elevator in the planetary capitol complex is the centerpiece of this 
corrupt world, where starforce cadets, artisan farmers, social-media prodigies and 
glitter tech smug-glers find their recluse. The fields around the main megacity are 
worked by remote controlled mechanoid workers. In case of any aggression towards 
Rogia, it's a well known fact that empty prairies hide numerous missile silos loaded 
with anti-grain missiles. 
      Kemia
      Kemia is a toxic planet ruled by an even more toxic government. The self-
proclaimed leader calls himself a Poison lord and rules with an iron first of thousands 
of Venom soldiers at his disposal. The planet is a giant, overcrowded slum with a 
vast tunnel colony spanning almost the entire planet, as well as a gigantic undertown 
right under the capital city. Protein farmers struggle day-to-day to keep up with the 
demand, Street sweepers clean up half rotten corpses, whilst clean-up engineers 
dispose of rusted machinery and half broken vehicles left after the passengers and 
drivers died mid transit due to multiple puncture wounds. Truly an unexplained 
death. It is on Kemia that the term dirty bomb really worked for the 'dirty' part, as 
whenever an opposition is formed, it is nuked back into atoms without any care for 
innocent bystanders. It is also said that Poison lord has multiple colonies of bio-
engineered plagues at his disposal, but no one dared to test this theory, as the blast 
of toxic flamethrowers and gas bombs is enough to repel any curiosity from settling 
in.
      Yttak
      Hell frozen over is a good metaphor if you want to describe Yttak. This ice-
moon, frigid planet is a home to thousands of prisoners. The guards are corrupt and 
the prison warden ruling the planet has no moral compass what-so-ever. The prison 
complex consists of a huge meal hall, a prisoner processing center, a detention 
center and more cellblocks than you can count, while the guard barracks are a 
luxurious apartment complex with private strip clubs and drug dens. If you're an 
aspiring prison guard - the planet is an ideal workplace. If you're a detainee or a 
transferred convict - you'd wish you were dead instead. 
      Oubanyen
      Oubanyen has a long and rich history, long since buried by massive 
overgrowths of sprawling marshes and rain-forests. Records indicate that the 
population descended from the citizens of city complexes who were subjected to a 
constant psychic drone lasting decades that decimated over 95% of the population; 
the survivors developing latent psychic powers. The drone also affected the 
vegetation by causing massively accelerated growth and transforming the entire 
planet. A religion formed around the mass extinction event while the survivors 
regressed to tribals. Passing traders see these massive trees as profit but are 
always met with great resistance. Although they deployed several neurotoxin bombs, 
they caused little harm to the locals who live in tree-top villages and ziggurats carved 
onto the hills.
      Chelis
      A simple dust ball floating through space, Chelis was originally marked for 
terraforming but proved to only support life through an unusually high presence of 
deep aquifers. Because the planet is plagued with constant sandstorms there is 
always a demand for people who can find food and water. Since water is used as a 
currency, mobile moisture farms are incredibly important to the Chelisi who follow 
herds of migrating spikelizards looking for the next humid area. Although most towns 
form around temporary wells, there are a handful of communities that surround high 
lifehalls containing massive pumps with access to a seemingly inexhaustible amount 
of water. These water centres are subjected to frequent stampedes of spikelizards, 
sand warrior raids and psychic disturbances but the presence of water and crop 
growth still makes them a desirable place to live.
      Ilwaba
      Once a sprawling urbworld, Illwaba had two nations constantly in conflict until 
they each deployed WMDs - poison bombs from one nation and fusion bombs from 
the other. Centuries later society continues with simple, tribalistic ways; many 
citizens scavenging the ancient cities for repairable artifacts destined to be sold at 
highway trading posts, and scouts marking safe passages through the skyscrapers 
and abandoned metro tunnels. Areas once devastated by poison bombs are now 
transformed by lush vegetation feeding off the poison left behind and communities 
have formed, their storehouses now places of worship as houses of regrowth. 
Though corporations use this planet as a disposal site for toxins with the poison 
nation's blessings, citizens originating from the fusion bomb-wielding nation have no 
resistance to the poison, instead reliant on ancient cryptoarmour. Threatened by 
those that seek to encourage plant growth; the conflicts of old continue.
      Boccocarro
      Boccocarro is a cavernous shell-world where crashing on the surface is a 
certified death sentence. However, the crust is pockmarked with incalculable tunnels 
that lead to vast underground caverns where humanity ekes out a harsh existence. 
Much of the population are concentrated into isolated city states formed around 
clusters of drip wells and fungus caverns, with one of the most important jobs in 
society being the community cook. While it is possible to travel to other cities through 
the tunnels, the mutated amphibians inhabiting the deep dark makes it extremely 
inadvisable. Those that attempt to chart these areas tend to go mad from the 
isolation and the reverberations of the never-ceasing croaking, returning as insane 
abyssal marines.
      Nuchadus
      Rumours abound that Nuchadus formed naturally, while others suggest it was 
altered by overlapping archotech influences. Regardless, life is a constant struggle 
for survival on the volcanic world far from its primary star, the only source of natural 
light from the lava flows that dominate the surface. Only a few locations are stable 
enough for people to exist simply, living off lava-snails and trading with the nomads 
residing in constantly moving cities built on top of tank treads. Scouts mounted in air 
gliders dot the sky riding off thermal currents, constantly vigilant for those who prey 
on these fortresses by hiding alongside their stygian soldiers on the lava's surface, 
camouflaged by the roiling heat waves and blinding brightness absorbed by obsidian 
sand.
      Zoutera
      Successfully converted into a planet-spanning arkology by corporate interests 
looking to make tourist traps for the rich, Zoutera was once a flat planet with a single 
megacontinent but later altered to have a higher oxygen content in order to support 
larger, more entertaining lifeforms. The original inhabitants have split into two 
predominant factions - those that have accepted a nomad life, and those fighting 
back by outfitting themselves in the bones of these new monsters. While both groups 
are regularly hunted for sport by tourists, some researchers have noticed an 
interesting change in some locals - their bodies are more robust, capable of extreme 
feats of strength and athletic performance, and are eating meals much larger than 
should be possible. They have become truly fearsome and earned their nickname: 
the Hunters.
      Wavia
      Wavia is an oceanic planet and the only source of Wavian pearls, a hotly 
traded commodity in the art world due to their immense size and versatility. Trading 
with visitors requires landing on massive, refined sea-grass bridges, which can only 
be hosted by the largest atolls. These atolls then trade with smaller atolls that use 
their lagoons to farm seagrass, fish and common pearls. Wavian pearls are brought 
by villages built onto the backs of leviathans that live in a symbiotic relationship with 
their caretakers, gaining protection from whalers and krakens. While some whalers 
hunt leviathans to process into chemfuel, others are disgruntled locals who have 
been subjected to seabeast attacks that have been spurred on by masters who have 
thoroughly researched baiting techniques as it makes it considerably easier to steal 
the large pearls while everyone is occupied.
      Bagua5
      Bagua5 wasn't designated to house a civilization, but one developed around 
its unique merchandise. Anyone seeking to dispose of their ships or machinery and 
bypass salvage corporations can pay a fee and dump it with the Baguacinquans. 
Numerous scrap towns and fortified scrapyards have formed in the choicest 
locations, typically where the most extravagant machinery is located, requiring 
defence against metalheads trying to steal their profits. Spaceport security is 
enforced by megacorps and nearby rainwater processing plants are the only places 
to get clean water. The vast accumulation of dangerous waste has resulted in a 
disease called the rust virus, causing red-brown skin discolorations and muscle 
atrophy. Since there is no cure, victims are simply cremated, sealed into scrap 
cubes, and then tossed off a junk cliff.
      Rhydell
      Rhydell's location is kept secret from the general public because it is a 
designated research site for various megacorporations including the Alpha Initiative 
and Gauranlen Inc. Due to the high rainfall, the moon is covered with vast forests 
housing numerous researchers staying in constant communication with orbital 
habitats outfitted to resist weapons fire from a super-de-stroyer. While these 
organisations are wary of each other, the true threat is the out-of-control local wildlife 
thanks to containment breaches. While initially a testing area for experimental fauna 
and flora, the development of extremely beautiful orchids led to a counter espionage 
operation which destroyed the containment protocols of numerous facilities. Now, 
wildlife is adapting faster than any method deployed against them, including orbital 
laser strikes and locally-sourced neurotoxin bombs. However, due to the value of the 
flora, both financially and academically, no one wants to be the first to pull out.
      Novaroma
      Novaroma doesn't orbit a primary star but is rather hurtling through space 
after having been flung from an elliptical orbit of its previous host. While the 
ecumenopolis planetoid is in the process of being evacuated, life is being maintained 
in a delicate balance through purposefully implemented byzantine bureaucracy. The 
wealthy of the over-city enjoy the artificial sunlight from an orbital sun lamp and fresh 
food from gated suburbs outfitted with hydroponics, whilst the poorer under-city 
residents are struggling for existence by eating recycled food processed into nutrient 
paste while avoiding roaming criminal gangs who have turned to crime. No one is 
sure how long life will continue, and no one is keen on finding out.
      Iwamura
      When referring to absolute mediocrity in corporate delivery services, Iwamura 
is the perfect example as a hollowed-out asteroid that serves as a trading and 
storage warehouse for its local system. The main source of entertainment comes in 
the form of televised blood sports. Warehouse workers wanting to quit their contracts 
can participate and win an all-expenses paid trip on the next passing Cryptosleeper, 
if they survive. Naturally, the odds are always stacked against these zero-G athletes 
and low-wage mercenaries are employed to police the venues, as well as protect 
against protestors deploying toxins or undercover agents launching EMP attacks for 
stock manipulation. Betting is extremely commonplace, encouraged, and sponsored 
by the owners.
      Filson
      One of the largest exporters of stabilised food in civilised human space, Filson 
is a farmworld. The majority of land owners use machines to harvest their large 
patches of land, while farm hands are used as mechanics and fruit pickers are 
required for delicate plants. Harvested crops are transported to mega-gra-naries and 
fertiliser processing plants as part of monthly quotas, while soil engineers closely 
monitor the health of the land and produce. Deadlines are so tight that converted 
space lens satellites are used to provide almost-constant sunlight and ancient 
bombers are deployed to drop fertilizer bombs to areas located in remote regions. 
Monthly meetings are held for people to air their grievances, although there aren't 
many thanks to generous compensation and government mandated education 
programs.

