      POWER ARMOR
      The powered mobility exoskeleton and armored assault system - more 
commonly known as power armor - is an industrial dream made reality of a 
protection system that can turn regular infantry into highly mobile armored shock 
troops. It consists of an underlying powered exoskeleton that is capable of 
augmenting the wearer's mobility and strength and an overlapping suit of armor that 
would otherwise be far too heavy for a non-bionically-enhanced human to wear.
      
      The development of a self-powered exoskeleton goes back to the 21st 
century, for which its original purpose was to assist people in being able to move far 
more than otherwise capable and repeatedly without causing injuries.
      
      Typically employed in automobile factories in the civilian sector, the military 
was obviously interested due to it allowing logistics to rapidly move cargo around 
and increase construction speed in forward operating bases. Whilst the idea of 
adding armor plating was considered, the available technology simply meant that the 
exoskeleton wouldn't receive enough power to function properly, or at least longer 
than several minutes without needing a recharge. There were numerous reports of 
some of the more brazen infantry who commandeered suits and attempted to use 
the mounted miniguns. However, their inability to aim usually ended up causing more 
harm than good once the initial intimidation wore off.
      As power generation and storage technology improved over the following 
century - offering more power whilst using up less space - different forms of powered 
exoskeletons started appearing. Lightweight models that could be worn over safety 
clothes for an entire day without needing to recharge became incredibly popular in 
the civilian construction industry. Requiring minimal training, it allowed those with 
health issues to perform incredible feats of manual labour. Even though larger 
models that had to be climbed into required extensive training and licensing, they 
were highly sought after in the logistics industry as they were capable of moving up 
to 2'000kg and powered by overhead line equipment. Ultralight variants were also 
developed for military use. Using some highly classified power generation involving 
miniature fission batteries, they allowed marines to carry heavy backpacks and move 
faster without putting strain on their joints by utilizing running blades. With space 
exploration becoming prevalent due to dwin-dling natural resources in the 23rd 
century, further developments were made to equip astronauts and asteroid miners 
with powered exoskeletons that would also protect from the ravages of space 
alongside providing necessary life support systems. The first generation of power 
armor were incredibly bulky suits that would allow a person to survive in a vacuum 
for a full 24-hours. Plates of various alloys - which also acted as the suit's heat sinks 
- covered the life support and power storage systems, as well as the on-board non-
reaction propulsion system and underlying powered exoskeleton to equally distribute 
the weight across the wearer's body. Additionally, the boots were equipped with 
electromagnets to assist with attaching to man-made structures alongside thermal 
conduit gel that allowed the suit to rapidly dispose of excess heat into an attached 
structure.
      With asteroid mining becoming more lucrative and terraforming prospects on 
other planets actually starting to become affordable - at least by the ultra-wealthy - 
slimmer and lighter exploration suits were necessary in order to reduce the costs of 
exporting them to orbital space stations. Improvements to the life support and 
propulsion system could only be taken so far, thus the underlying exoskeleton 
needed improving. The creation of the new metal - Plasteel - became a vital 
ingredient in reducing the weight of the frame whilst still providing enough strength. 
Additionally, the joints were changed from mechanical and actuated joints to neuro-
memetic assistors, further decreasing the weight and bulk as well as their power 
draw. Overall this resulted in a far lighter, slimmer, and energy efficient powered 
exoskeleton. This new frame was incredibly comfortable and could be worn under 
other clothing to the point that people could even sleep in them. Needless to say, the 
military was largely behind these advancements and started developing combat 
variants of these EVA suits.
      Taking full advantage of plasteel, these next-generation exoskeletons were 
upgraded with more powerful fission batteries and decked out in layers of plasteel-
weave plates over a reinforced mesh housing. This resulted in an incredibly sturdy 
set of armor that didn't slow the wearer down. To compliment the suit, a helmet was 
designed with similar plating and an internal system that was capable of both 
displaying information concerning the armor and rudimentary telemetry data during 
hostile engagements. The suits were also hermetically sealed against airborne 
attacks, allowing it to be used in non-atmospheric conditions - several missing 
features from the EVA model means that these engagements need to be brief to 
avoid overheating. This first generation of military power armor was dubbed Marine 
Armor and is still in use millennia later.
      
      There are many different variants of a modern power armor - the most 
popular, and the most basic is the Marine variant.
      
      Much later, with the advent of psycasters and their abilities in combat 
engagements grew - as well as the majority of these psycasters being nobles of the 
Imperium - the demand for protective equipment that was also fashionable and 
augmented psychic capabilities was created and quickly filled by enterprising 
manufacturers. In order to augment the psycaster's abilities, strands of Eltex were 
interwoven throughout the suit and the plasteel-weave plates whilst not 
compromising the protective aspects. The results of which mean that they are less 
useful compared to dedicated clothing but considerably easier to manufacture and 
offer superior protection. As for appeasing nobles, gold plating was added via 
electrolysis to strategically insignificant - but visually striking - locations. This process 
is repeated a few times for each part so as to prevent the plating from easily being 
removed from non-combat related events. 
      One of the capabilities of the EVA armor that was initially met with skepticism 
when first designed was the auxiliary equipment functionality. This was because the 
original design was intended for power armor users who had to use both their arms 
and legs to stay attached to objects in zero gravity environments, so remote-
operated shoulder-mounted tools would become almost a necessity.
      These were eschewed in favour of extra layers of protection and more 
powerful, compact power cells to relieve the added weight. As ground-based combat 
became more elaborate with the capabilities of power armor, the idea was re-
examined with the idea of support suits that would work alongside regular variants. 
This resulted in suits that offered specialized abilities in exchange for taking away 
available power from the exosuit and removing plating both to fit in the new hardware 
as well as reduce the overall energy load.
      Further modifications to the base module can be made to fit various roles, be 
they for light scouting roles or heavier frontline assaults. Care needs to be taken 
during the manufacturing process to adjust the fission battery's output as only so 
much additional plating can be added before neither the power supply nor the 
exoskeleton itself can withstand the load. These heavier, power-hungry suits are 
particularly vulnerable against graser weapons, so careful consideration needs to be 
taken before deploying these resource-intensive armors.
      
      Warcaskets
      The warcasket is a side development of the power armor that follows the 
same principles and 
      uses the same baseline technology to achieve some-what similar results. 
However, while power armor was developed by the military using cutting edge 
technology and materials, the warcasket was instead a simple upscaling of the 
underlying powered exoskeleton using whatever materials were on hand. The former 
was intended on arming the most competent soldiers with equipment 
      to increase their effectiveness while the latter was intended to turn even the 
most frail and geriatric amateur into a hulking killing machine.
      The origins of warcasket development is shrouded in much media 
manipulation and corporate cover ups, as public knowledge can vastly undermine 
the stockholder's confidence and halt the salvage industry's growth. Even planetary 
governments are keen on containing this knowledge as a lull in said sector can lead 
to further disastrous consequences, including but not limited to Kessler Syndrome 
and rare metal shortages. This is because the first generation of warcaskets were 
assembled by disgruntled astrominers who were getting royally shafted in their 
employment contracts - most of whom were and still are indentured servants - by the 
oligopoly of salvage corporations, such as having daily equipment rental costs, 
increased interest rates on high earning days and fees for checking their mail for 
assignments.
      Numerous piecemeal ships were assembled from bits of scrap kitted from 
choice pieces of salvage hidden away by purposefully damaging them and eating the 
fines. Weapons were made by modifying plasma cutting tools and gravitational 
tethers - oversized thruster systems composed of various ships' fire suppression 
systems - all in preparation for the right time. Approximately two hours after an 
inspection composed by upper management and executives on an unknown mining 
station orbiting in an asteroid belt far from government oversight, a massive riot 
occurred with many metric tons worth of food, medicine and high-value refined 
metals stolen from stockpiles. The entire workforce declared their independence 
from any and all government and corporate interests, becoming the foundation for 
future Junker pirate gangs.
      
      These initial warcaskets were extremely simplistic modifications to altered, 
oversized powered rigs, pushed well beyond their safety and operational limits with 
low-grade starship reactor cores for power and simple but beefy pieces of hull 
plating. 
      They were extremely clunky and difficult to maneuver, with operators 
purposefully moving as carefully as possible to avoid snapping their own limbs or 
even crushing their spines when entering a relatively strong gravity field due to the 
immense shifting weight of the equipment. To minimize vulnerabilities, operators 
were completely welded into these suits which needed to be cut open if they wanted 
to do something simple like eating anything other than nutrient paste.
      There were other attempts by other, less successful, astrominer unions which 
spurred a vast change in worker reform - both beneficial and detrimental depending 
on how closely monitored each corporation was - which actually led to a 
development project among some of the more forward-thinking pirate groups. Tired 
of taking on civilian targets with small paydays, they dreamt much bigger and bolder 
with the development of the second generation warcaskets and implemented early 
iterations of bionic limb interfaces to link the pilot's brain with the rig. However, this 
was largely a failure as it led to even more cases of massive limb trauma as the 
pilots tried to operate a second pair of limbs. As such, a more dramatic change was 
implemented which involved linking the user's central nervous system directly to the 
rig's electronic interface and removing the limbs to both eliminate any resulting 
medical complications and reduce the training time down to zero.
      Thanks to limited availability of resources and the need (or desire) for a more 
mobile frame that can operate in a much broader range of pressurized environments, 
the overall armor plating was vastly reduced compared to the first generation 
warcaskets which were otherwise only vulnerable to starship-class anti-armour 
weapons. This was further necessitated as the power supply units salvaged from 
civilian targets were considerably weaker but relatively easy to duplicate and 
manufacture en masse. Thus, the third generation warcaskets were deployed 
against both military convoys and hardened megacorp trade ships. Since this was 
before power armor had successfully completed the prototyping phase, the crews of 
these ships were completely unprepared for the initial waves of assault. These 
events have been traced and cross-referenced with several planets' worth of 
economic reports. Thanks to the difficulty inherent to trans system communication, it 
took many months before future excursions were armed with superior anti-armour 
personnel weapons and, eventually, early power armor units which drastically 
reduced these losses.
      In the endless advance of military technology, these countermeasures 
deployed by a more advanced and better equipped prey spurred a golden age of 
development in power armor-related systems. Pirate engineers started reverse 
engineering captured suits of power armor to augment their warcaskets alongside 
their new stockpiles of materials, instead of trying to adopt this newly developed 
technology entirely and be caught lagging behind yet again. The fourth generation 
warcasketeers were augmented only months later into a minimally specialized fifth 
generation. Later developments had varying degrees of success and eventually 
resulted in those same military organizations using their own improved versions of 
warcaskets which allowed quadraplegic combat veterans to serve even past death. 
Undoubtedly, this technology will continue to improve or develop into different ways 
by those who want their own variants. 