
      ARTIFICIAL BODY PARTS
      Arguably, the earliest signs of civilization - according to archaeologists - is the 
discovery of bones that were once broken but had healed. This shows that people 
were willing to look after each other and nurse them back to health, as typically - in 
the animal kingdom - a broken limb means death as they are no longer able to flee 
from predators. As society rose and advanced, what were once considered similar 
death sentences can be mitigated - if not outright improved upon - with the 
development of artificial prosthetics.
      The earliest forms were simple in design, for example, a wooden peg that 
replaced a leg below the knee or a steel hook that replaced a hand. The question 
was less if someone could regain functionality from injury and more if they could 
survive the wound and potential infection - often the reason why the limbs were 
amputated. With the advancement of medicine, these risks grew smaller whilst the 
understanding of how to replace limbs and organs artificially grew wider. Wooden 
pegs gave way to articulated prosthetics that could bend, hooks that could open and 
grip something by being connected to a nerve or muscle and even entire machines 
that a patient could be hooked up to that would function as an dialysis.
      As technology developed ever more quickly, so too did prosthetics and the 
electronics that would be packed into what once were functional limbs - or entirely 
missing since childbirth. Though they were called bionic limbs, they were much 
closer to cybernetic equivalents, such as an arm with a fully functioning five-fingered 
hand that needed to be recharged via standardised electric socket. Whilst organs 
could be replaced with artificial equivalents, it would be many years before they were 
able to be effective replacements without negative effects, such as people with 
artificial hearts being permanently tired.
      
      Along with most other industries, further advancement was made due in large 
part to the military, the space mining industry and the ultra-wealthy who had nothing 
better to do with their accumulated wealth than to figure out ways of spending it to 
further their own interests and create more wealth.
      
      Bionic Body Parts
      With the further exploration and exploitation of space, astronauts and 
astrominers who suffered debilitating injuries - but whose training and experience 
could not be replaced - became participants in elaborate and expensive trials for a 
better artificial body part. Advancements made in powered exoskeletons - 
specifically plasteel and neuro-memetic assistors - were taken into consideration for 
improvements of joints, which resulted in miniaturisation of silenced micro-servos 
that were capable of vastly improving the previously medi-ocre strength of 
prosthetics. Plasteel-based muscle fibres were used alongside the new joints which 
resulted in greatly improved strength - superior to an organic arm.
      In order to better facilitate and improve postural control, a new type of 
interface for the nerve endings was made with the biogel nerve-link - allowing 
exceptional control over all the different parts of the artificial limb. Additionally, in 
order to deal with the lack of proper facilities that would otherwise be needed to 
perform recurring maintenance and restore abrasion, a lattice-dust healing system 
was created that would allow the body part to maintain itself even better than a 
natural one would.
      These advancements in replacement limbs gave way to an entirely new line of 
organ replacements, capable of not simply replacing but straight-up upgrading their 
functions. 
      Naturally of extreme interest for certain groups, these new bionic organs and 
even bionic spines led the way to artificially extending one's natural lifespan. 
Alongside clients of the cryptosleep industry, this led to a massive boost in revenue 
for the bionics industry and ensured they were in vogue - even resulting in people 
voluntarily removing perfectly healthy organs in exchange for an improved bionic 
counterpart.
      As a result, a new demand became apparent for bespoke bionics - body parts 
that were considered aesthetically beautiful, brain implants that reduced the need for 
sleep, recreational and sexual organ enhancements, among many others. These 
were not limited to rich and shameless, as the military was also interested in bionics 
that could contain hidden weapons or poisons, and even extra organs that would 
artificially harden the user's skin. Furthermore, the advent of psycasters led to an 
entirely new field of psychic enhancers and detectors, as well as some ruthless or 
unscrupulous implants that originated from the black market.
      Implants
      Although the early stages were exceptionally simple and not always 
successful, implants have gone through many stages of development, similar to limb 
and organ replacements. A very early example of this is dentures made from either 
ivory or the teeth of other people obtained through one method or another. In 
general, this category focuses on body modifications that try to improve what is 
already there - whether the intention is functional or simply aesthetic such as a 
pacemaker or piercings. Thus, we shall be taking a look at some of the more 
ubiquitous implants available in the modern age.
      The most diverse and complex category are brain implants, which typically 
involve very precise introductions of controlled chemicals and electrical currents. The 
joywire - one of the most well-known examples of this - is extremely addictive as it 
induces almost constant euphoria, making it very popular on the black market.  The 
painstopper, similarly popular but for different reasons,  blocks all feelings of pain the 
user might otherwise experience, making it a staple of the criminal underground on 
the look out for their own suicide squads.  Circadian-class implants have proven 
popular with civilians and military alike, like the circadian assistant which cleans up 
toxins accumulated during brain activity without the need to properly rest for long 
periods of time. Similarly, people can install learning assistants - cranial 
nanocomputers that help improve memory formation and learning speed through 
subliminal messaging while the subject sleeps.
      The Shattered Empire has many remnant bionic technologies that they 
brought with them when fleeing Sophiamunda, most of which were designed either 
for their melee soldiers or the servants of the nobles who were required to serve a 
certain function or to simply look appealing. Cheaper to mass-produce than bionics, 
combatant implants such as hidden melee weapons were implanted into live flesh. 
Examples include a poison-tipped blade that can slide from between the middle and 
ring finger or a spike that protrudes when trying to knee someone in the 
unmentionables. Servants could be modified to allow them to cook perfect meals, 
make them particularly adept at pleasing their masters sexually or simply beautified 
for those who don't want an ugly worker as part of their household.
      While some implants can alter the effects of bionic replacements, they must 
be manufactured alongside the bionic as part of a package deal due to their inherent 
complexity if the implant completely changes the function of said organ or limb. Such 
an example is a bionic stomach and their derivatives like the detoxifier or 
reprocessor. In terms of efficiency they are identical, however due to the 
fundamental changes to the digestion process only one could be present at a time, 
even if no modification were present. Should the user wish for a different secondary 
function, they would have to completely swap out the part rather than being able to 
change an attached device. In the case of smaller and simpler general application 
implants such as the coagulator, which speeds up blood clotting and functions 
alongside the liver, they can be removed without issue as they don't replace the 
function itself but rather provide assistance or boost a very specific application.
      Skin alterations work differently than other implants. Rather than being a 
single implant, a person can alter their entire epidermis through the use of 
mechanites programmed for specific functions. When injected into the bloodstream 
the mechanites rapidly reproduce and spread throughout the integumentary system 
as well as augmenting everything attached to it, including other bionic parts. 
Although only able to provide one function at a time, such as hardened skin or purely 
cosmetic changes, a medical professional can recall the mechanites and reprogram 
them as needed. Due to the intelligent nature of the mechanites multiple groups can 
coexist in a user's system, providing multiple functionalities in conjunction with each 
other.
      Archotech Body Parts
      Even with all the advancements that have been made in the bionics industry, 
the archotech AIs have proven themselves to surpass humanity in every single way 
whilst still being baffling in their functionality.  Such body parts are incredibly rare and 
highly sought after, looking and feeling exactly like a regular limb or organ, but 
harder to damage than Plasteel. They offer superior functionality in their field of use, 
even offering incomprehensible abilities to their wearer. Because of the complete 
failure to understand and replicate these parts, very few are willing to attempt 
reverse engineering for fear of damaging them.
      Anyone equipped with these archotech body parts need to be exceedingly 
careful, as their capture will typically involve having the parts carefully recovered and 
the host posthumously discarded. 