
      FIREARM TECHNOLOGY
      Over the course of centuries, firearms are probably the most changing 
technology. From sticks and stones to bows and arrows, humanity went through a 
whole range of tools of destruction - gunpowder weapons, modern-day assault rifles, 
railguns, experimental laser weapons and portable nuclear missile launchers.
       From the daggers and slings used by tribals to the swords and bows used by 
medieval soldiers, most of the weapons technology on rimworlds are practically 
identical to those that can be found on Terra because humans themselves haven't 
changed much. Over the years, better technology has led to fewer impurities and 
mistakes in manufacturing resulting in even deadlier forms of weapons.
      The proliferation of industrial "modern" weapons can be largely attributed to 
the fact that vast amounts of weapons are military surplus sold off in an attempt to 
recoup the cost of re-arming the military. These weapons are distributed to make use 
of the designs that have been refined through centuries of bloody history, as well as 
to use the excess ammunition available. They are incredibly cheap to make for their 
respective effectiveness and it brings about an old adage:"if it ain't broke, don't fix it."
      Graser (gamma ray lasers) Weaponry
      By taking the concept of portable laser weaponry and expanding on it, a 
defensive system can be created that would make it effective against larger, harder 
targets. Whilst "conventional" weaponry is well-suited against organic targets, with 
the development of mechanoids and their military applications - not to mention the 
increasingly-armoured vehicles used in large or even planetary engagements - the 
ability to hit a target at a massive distance becomes an incredibly attractive concept.
      In building a precise gamma ray emitter, one has to accept it has incredibly 
limited usefulness. Although gamma radiation causes cell mutations and is incredibly 
deadly to humans, a laser would be far more energetic but far too narrow to justify 
military application. Instead, a "graser" weapon would be able to bypass thick armour 
plating and target far more vulnerable parts of more militarily significant interests - 
namely nuclear reactor cores. The oversaturation of gamma radiation on a nuclear 
fission reactor causes it to enter supercritical status and overload before the safety 
overrides have time to activate, resulting in complete overload and detonating the 
reactor.
      There have been attempts at miniaturizing this technology into anti-power 
armour weaponry. The results have been somewhat lacking due to both the smaller 
size of armour reactors and the equivalent of stuffing an overweight man into the 
scuba gear intended for a child. Single-use variants have been developed that are 
capable of penetrating straight through multiple layers of reinforced armour, which 
can in turn have their power output reduced to make a more powerful and expensive 
alternative to infantry laser weapons. Surprisingly, this variation has seen 
experimental use in the Navy in the form of boarding torpedoes, offering better 
protection and access flexibility for their marines who have to go through extremely 
high g-force training and conditioning.
      
      Whilst the resulting explosion isn't comparable to a nuclear bomb that uses 
dense, enriched uranium or plutonium, it is more than capable of rendering the unit it 
was powering completely useless without needing to engage its defenses. Needless 
to say, the development of grasers led to further development in reactor shielding 
and reinforced laminates on starship armor plating.
      
      Pulse-charged Projectile Weapons
      Pulse-charge weapons operate by firing electromagnetically-accelerated 
ferromagnetic slugs, in effect being almost entirely similar to a coilgun. Each 
cartridge loaded into the weapon consists of a plasteel slug tipped with a stabilized 
ionized gas in a ceramic casing, while the casings contain charged capacitors that 
power the magnetic railings. As the slug is about to exit the chamber, the gas is 
energized and destabilized. Upon impact, the unstable energy unleashes a thermal 
load on the targeted area, both damaging it with thermal energy and weakening it for 
the kinetic energy of the plasteel slug. This gives the ammunition great armor 
penetration capabilities while still being effective against unarmored targets.
      Due to the lack of readily available plasma containment equipment - which 
would be needed for every single projectile fired - the projectile can only be 
energized briefly just as it is about to exit the barrel. The advantage of this is that the 
weapons can be made considerably shorter - due to not needing as large a heat sink 
- and are much easier to both manufacture and maintain.
      
      Variations of the standard rifle configuration have been made, varying barrel 
length, cyclical fire rate or even the composition of the projectile. Typically, most 
people tend to swear by the gold standard of the R-15, more simply known as the 
Charge Rifle.
      
      Human-usable Laser weapons
      Laser weapons have existed in the realm of science fiction before, but have 
been otherwise impractical due to constraints of a power source that can provide 
enough energy to sustain a combat-viable weapon. Far away from the warmth of 
civilization, a sufficiently advanced tinkerer can manufacture compact makeshift 
batteries capable of providing this power, alongside prismatic emitter crystals that 
can concentrate this energy - if somewhat comparatively inaccurate to a properly 
manufactured one - into a precise beam of burning light.
      The lack of available superconductive ceramics means that makeshift laser 
weapons are prone to overheating far more quickly than properly manufactured 
variants, as well as severely limiting the variety of options that can be manufactured. 
Some colonies view this as an advantage, as the process of heating up actually 
quickens the rate at which the weapon can put firepower down-range. As a result, 
they tend to become a favourite for defenders that need to hold stationary positions.
      Properly manufactured laser weapons have an additional advantage aside 
from better materials and a proper battery cell. By producing a beam of oscillating 
intensity instead of constant, the weapon is capable of firing at faster rates at longer 
ranges whilst using less energy. This - alongside the use of ceramics - helps reduce 
the rate at which the weapon heats up and reduces the likelihood of overheating.
      
      Charge Railguns
      As ship-to-ship combat evolved, competition broke out in developing the next 
bleeding-edge in space-viable firepower. Lasers, whilst effective, proved too much of 
a power sink for consistent output and was best suited as artillery in over-loading 
systems. Missiles proved too vulnerable to screening weapons and required frequent 
resupplies. Railguns were considered the best option for a ship's main battery but 
required a hefty redesign to deal with the hazards of fighting in a vacuum.
      The barrels themselves are designed to receive solid slugs to minimise 
material waste while the projectiles are fashioned to penetrate the outer shell of a 
ship, completely dumping its leftover kinetic energy within to avoid excessive 
piercing. - if a round managed to pass through a ship entirely, it would retain its 
speed and damage capability until it hit something, be it human, ship, or planet. To 
facilitate semi-autonomous engagement, each sentry is equipped with an array of 
advanced sensors that confirms firing solutions only when the target could be hit. 
Additionally - to make the most of the expensive sensors - each platform features a 
pair of charged railguns.
      After a battle, the battery-sinks are taken to the ship's Engineering Control to 
have their heat bled off into Life Support and the energy is refilled from the Reactor. 
The internal components are rather delicate to minimise space, with an insulating 
membrane separating the charging mechanism and the heat retention material. In 
the event of exposure to a powerful magnetic field - such as a planet - the system 
has a safety function that prevents the weapon from firing and destroying the 
membrane. This feature can be overridden in case of emergencies or unusual 
environmental conditions but in exchange the charging port will be too damaged to 
use again.
      The two railguns are twin-linked in order to make the most out of brief 
windows of opportunity. Finally, to deal with both excess heat and energy 
requirements, the base of the weapons system is outfitted with  a combination of 
rechargeable batteries and linkable heat sinks.
      
      Human-usable Coilguns
      Coilguns have existed as large, powerful weapons mounted on armoured 
vehicles using a series of electromagnets firing sequentially to accelerate a 
ferromagnetic projectile to supersonic speeds. By miniaturising this technology and 
using ferromagnetic-alloy sabots, a portable gauss weapon is capable of firing self-
ablating rounds that can pierce almost anything - organic or inanimate - unless it is 
specifically reinforced or sufficiently thick.
      Due to the inability to mass manufacture plasma containment units at an 
affordable level, the weapons are modified to fire discarding sabot rounds which 
make them too dangerous to use in a vacuum but are perfect for planetside 
engagements where collateral damage is considered inconsequential.
      
      Interestingly enough, the design of compacted gauss weaponry is derived 
from plasma infantry weapons - themselves a more powerful variation of pulse-
charge weaponry - which are used in atmosphere-less combat.
      
      Monosword Technology
      In the quest to create the perfect weapon, the monosword was developed. 
Infused with mechanites that maintain the cutting edge to mono-molecular 
sharpness, this crystal-metallic longsword can slice through thick armour easily and 
quickly, making it a versatile weapon against any armoured enemy. The monosword 
can be built with an onboard persona that will bond with a single person, 
synchronizing their reflexes and attack speeds. The weapon and user will be bonded 
for the entirety of the wielder's life, and the weapon will not perform for anyone else 
until the bond is broken through death.
      
      A crystal-metallic longsword is infused with mechanites that maintain a mono-
molecular cutting edge. It cuts through even thick armor with ease, and its light 
weight permits fast attacks.
      
      Zeushammer
      Zeushammers are elite weapons assigned to elite people. Using extremely 
powerful batteries that discharge a strong electromagnetic shock, they are often 
given to the empire's champions for dealing with rogue mechanoid hives. Even 
though it was designed for anti-mechanoid personnel, persona variants utilizing an 
artificial intelligence embedded in its hilt to coordinate with the user have been 
created for royalty like the high stellarch's bodyguards. Its internal workings, 
especially its battery system, have been hidden from the imperial public, even going 
to the lengths that if a person tries the open up a zeushammer, it heats its battery, 
melting everything inside.
      Crypto-coated Weapons
      A thin layer of cryogenic molecules that can be used to coat metallic surfaces, 
Cryo-coating has been adapted in weapons development, even though it's extremely 
difficult to create and maintain. Mainly found in ultra-tech civilizations, crypto-coated 
weapons have been discovered across the many rimworlds, some revered as 
weapons of the Gods.
      Although crypto-firearms look very similar to other ranged weapons, the main 
difference is in the projectiles; before it leaves the barrel, it is cryp-to-coated. When 
the supercooled bullet hits the target, it combines hypothermic and physical damage 
for a devastating effect.
      Melee weapons, however, are infused with crypto-coating to create a perma-
cold alloy useful for damaging targets - more so if they are already encumbered. 
The best way to achieve maximum results is to use a heavy-hitting weapon with a 
large blade such as an axe.
      
      Self-Modifying Automated Rocket Trajectory Weapon System
      Weapons that can aim themselves present a number of benefits, including 
reduced training and near-perfect aim for everyone, even complete amateurs. 
However, the concept presents a number of complications which require a relatively 
high level of precision manufacturing, as well as extremely small but powerful 
computer processors.  Although the development of gyroscopic ammunition has 
been attempted in the past, it failed due to the lack of proper technology. However, 
previous attempts have been adapted using exceedingly precise tooling to implant 
miniscule fuses and propellant, allowing the projectile to alter course mid-flight.
      SMART guns rely on a computer that configures the flight path of the 
projectile before it is fired via electromagnetic accelerator rails, instead of a wireless 
connection between the weapons platform and the ammunition. While the latter 
would give it unparalleled maneuverability and accuracy, the system would be 
excessively vulnerable to electronic signal jamming. Because of this, the majority of 
the weight comes from the targeting system, EMI shielding and removable battery.
      To fire the weapon, first the operator has to "paint" the target using a harmless 
laser which provides the onboard computer with the relevant information it needs to 
compute the proper trajectory. Once they fully pull the trigger, it will only fire the 
projectile when the scope's HUD indicates the gun is roughly in the right direction. 
While the weapon is naturally swaying, the computer ignites the projectile's fuses 
with immaculate precision at the exact moment it drifts at the correct position and 
fires, making it capable of hitting a target that's behind cover. While this hinders the 
range, longer and more powerful weapons using larger gyrojet ammunition that more 
closely resembles miniature multistage rockets as well as a longer rail system, were 
designed to work around this limitation. To maximize penetration, the projectiles 
detach the propellant casing - which shoots it forward - right before it reaches the 
target.
      Militarized Plasma Tools
      As the asteroid mining (astromining) industry took off during the late 22nd 
century, new forms of equipment were developed to help workers do their jobs 
properly and safely. Since it's practically impossible for a transport shuttle to be 
shielded against thousands of tons of hurtling space rocks, two different sets of 
equipment were developed over time. These were protective suits - later developing 
into power armour by the 23rd century - and plasma tools designed to function in a 
zero-G vacuum.
      These tools included a variety of options that allowed astromin-
      ers to tackle different situations, such as splitting asteroids into smaller 
chunks and creating scaf-folding. Later, they were adopted by the salvage industry to 
dismantle derelicts without the infrastructure of a shipyard. This didn't go unnoticed 
by the military who were already beginning to adopt the advancements made in 
powered exoskeletons and made their own militarized variants. One such case is the 
plasmacutter. Constructed with cheaper materials as a disposable tool, they included 
proximity switches that could turn it into a trap or hazard for hostile crew members 
thanks to its compact form, however it performed poorly in atmospheric conditions.
      This changed somewhat in the 28th century during the Fall of Sorne, as the 
lack of military hardware forced personnel to use tools for personal defense as well 
as military operations. The addition of ferrous metallic cores increased the 
penetrating power of the tools, and the powerful native magnetic field helped the 
energy field containment function over longer distances. This, along with other 
improvements for atmospheric use, gave the humans a much needed power boost to 
compensate for their lack of military-grade hardware and helped drive back the 
mechanoid invaders. They saw continued use against the self-created insectoid 
menace as it allowed them to disable targets by removing limbs without needing to 
completely destroy them. Outside of Sorne's environmental conditions, these 
weapons fell somewhat out of favor for those who prefer to keep their targets at a 
much safer range but they still have a high stopping power against armoured targets. 