
      MECHANOID TECH
      Mechanoids are autonomous intelligent robots built for domestic, industrial or 
military purposes. Ranging in capability from simple domestic worker bots and 
mechanized assault machines to human-passing negotiator and infiltrator units 
designed by archotechnological super intelligences, mechanoid design is complex 
and the AI needed to make them effective is very advanced. 
      Path to Mechanoid tech
      The invention of mechanoid technology evolved over hundreds of years. In 
the 21st century, humanity developed simple-minded drones and robots created on 
long assembly lines using expensive and unsustainable resources. This resulted in a 
sub-human level of intelligence in a clunky, expensive shell, and was not optimal for 
the tasks such drones and robots were meant to do.
      Humanity needed to improve its methods to fully replace most basic workers 
with an automated workforce. As the technology became cheaper and more 
accessible, more private companies began experimenting with robot tech. The new 
robotic work units were perfect for menial labor tasks - they were hard-working and 
capable of following simple vocal instructions, but still had mobility limitations when it 
came to navigating obstacles like staircases.
      Over the next few years, private companies began a race to improve their 
designs to charge more money than their competitors. This led to vast improvements 
in the robotics sector as it was no longer limited to mindless husks and automated 
production lines. These new experimental units had an expanded movement range 
equal to most organics, and their processors and computing units were significantly 
upgraded, making it easier to code new commands for them on the go. Robots were 
no longer destined for one purpose - the new, advanced robot models could adapt to 
tasks with just a few new lines of code.
      Whilst the original designers of the new robot model saw this as an endgame, 
it only made the robotics race more brutal and tighter. Various companies began 
breaking the law to find a way to improve their designs, and the study of the human 
brain became a standard job description across the robotics sector, even though 
human experimentation was still illegal. This led to the development of the early 
Classifier AIs, which despite being faulty on many occasions, turned out to be a high-
demand product.
      Despite the illegalities, human governments signed contracts with the private 
sector since it was easy to turn a blind eye if the government created new job 
positions like Criminality Predictor and filled them with unpaid robots. This led to 
trillions of dollars being funneled into an already growing market, allowing for the 
faster development of an arguably controversial tech.
      Androids, a direct upgrade from mindless robots, were advanced platforms 
that were stronger, faster, and more durable than most organics. With their upgraded 
neural processors, they were fully capable of independent operation but early 
models of subpersona cores gave them humanlike qualities whilst keeping them on a 
short leash by programming in numerous kill switches and subroutines. Although 
androids looked like living, breathing humans due to synthetic skin, hair, almost 
humanlike eyes, and behaviours, underneath it all laid a mechanical frame of metal 
and cable.
      Whilst costly in production, androids could replace a human being in almost 
all tasks with no pay, break, or union requirements, and never complained about the 
tasks they needed to do. Because of this they were often used in dangerous 
situations and were forced to suffer decapitation, critical damage, and 
electromagnetic burns, causing individual models to be discarded.
      Such discarded models often ended up either repurposed back into mindless 
robots or, if unlucky enough, in gigantic android junkyards where damaged bodies 
lay in giant heaps, some still minimally active. These sites sparked many social 
movements to give discarded androids a second life, but the industry's power 
outweighed the power of the vocal social minority.
      Over the centuries, advancements were made which resulted in smaller 
drones capable of more processing power and intelligence than the big, human-like 
vessels. It was not a surprise to see the nano-technology industry booming as a side 
effect of robotics advancements, and soon nano-bots found their application in 
almost all parts of the technology sector. Modeled on organic DNA, these 
microscopic machine intellects were capable of autonomously assembling most 
components needed for new drones.
      Ancient Mechanoids
      Ancient mechanoids are killer machines hidden in structures, under mounds 
of dust, or at the bottom of the ocean, capable of self-maintaining for thousands of 
years. These obsolete models seem unified in purpose but not well-coordinated in 
action. While local scholars believe they're autonomous weapons left over from an 
old war, tribal legends describe them as the demonic servants of a sleeping god.
      
      Mechanoids in ancient dangers are remnants of old conflicts following their 
previous directive after being locked in a dark tomb without any new sensory data.
      
      Mechanites
      Mechanites are microscopic mechanoids most known for their use in 
medicine, but they can be programmed to perform many tasks. The use of 
mechanites is heavily regulated by preventing them from reproducing.
      
      Modern day Mechanoids
      Mechanoids are present in normal life across the civilised planets. They are 
used in a variety of ways and in almost every profession. Unlike robots, mechanoids 
have advanced programming and are created through nano-engineering using 
nanites to construct their bodies, allowing mechanoids to repair any damage done to 
them with adequate resources.
      Some Mechanoids are even capable of reproduction - the Von Neumann 
probe is the best example of a single mechanoid travelling to another solar system, 
gathering resources and building copies of itself. However, the self-replicating ability 
uses almost all of the mechanoids computing capacity, so non-reproducing 
mecanoids are widely used instead. Combat mechanoids are programmed to follow 
orders as well as make their own decisions based on situational awareness. Other 
examples of non-reporducing mechanoids include building mechanoids, resource 
harvesting mechanoids and social mechanoids designed for conversations.
      When different mechanoid types are programmed to work together, they 
create a swarm. Mechanoid swarms can vary greatly in size, with smaller swarms 
comprised of only a few dozen mechanites used to construct buildings and large 
swarms of millions used to launch ground invasions. Regardless of the size of the 
swarm, a lair is essential. In this space, new mechanoids can be created to fit the 
situation.
      A mechanoid lair is necessary for any independent mechanoid swarm working 
in space. All mechanoids work in tandem to supply the assembler stations where 
new mechanoids are formed depending on the situation.
      Modern-day mechanoids are created similarly to organic insects - grown in 
specially designated pods rather than built on a factory belt. Mechanoids come in 
different sizes - from gigantic harvesters the size of a large building to tiny nano-bots 
the size of an insect. 
      Space-based mechanoids often resemble ships more than robots, but they 
are solid chunks of machinery. If they become damaged, they will self-repair if 
resources are available.
      Mechanoid swarms are used by many different cultures to wage war, obtain 
resources, exploit planets and transport goods and people. Mechanoids often 
supplement the space fleet with disposable vessels capable of fighting and 
defending the capital ships.
      Human commanders are always used to direct mechanoids as their base 
programming would have them walk straight towards the enemy to fight them. This 
can be seen with Ancient mechanoids sleeping in various shelters and ruins across 
the rimworlds - their commanders are long dead, and their programming has 
reverted to its primary directive - eliminate all threats.
      Mechanoids are controlled through a series of uplinks, usually from a single 
control room. Because of this, the control room is a concentrated target during battle 
and destroying it means that mechanoids will only follow their last transmitted order.
      
      Mechanoids can come in different sizes - from giganting harvesters the size of 
a large building, to small nanobots the size of an insect. 
      
      Despite the thousands of applications, mechanoids are still limited in 
processing power. Although they can analyze situational data and adjust their 
directives accordingly, they are not super-intelligences. 
      
      Mechanoids are controlled through a series of uplinks, usually from a single 
control room. Because of this, the control room is a concentrated target during battle 
and destroying it means that mechanoids will only follow their last transmitted order. 