
      ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
      Artificial intelligence is an important part of our world. Scientists divide AIs into 
four general categories: Classifiers, subpersonae, personae, and archotechs.
      Classifier AI
      A classifier is an AI system with no personhood, nor is it broadly adaptable, as 
Classifiers are designed for one task. Many classifiers can absorb and learn from 
data, but they are not programmed to communicate with organics.
      Classifiers are used for tasks such as recognizing images, predicting 
criminality from statistics, guiding aircraft trajectories, driving automatic vehicles, and 
controlling characters in entertainment simulations.
      Subpersonae
      Subpersonae are artificial intelligences that can replicate limited human-like 
behaviours and can take on complex unstructured tasks. Although they are excellent 
at following instructions and can communicate using natural speech, they fail an 
extended Turing test.
      Subpersonae are often used to run small devices like entertainment systems, 
cars, wardrobes, refrigerators, cleaning robots, and vending machines.
      Personae
      AI personae are the highest levels of glitterworld technology, with artificial 
intelligence comparable to human groups. While some AIs are programmed to be 
simple and are tasks like managing a household or a small spacecraft, other 
personae are genius-level intellects in the Von Neumann class who can outthink 
almost any unenhanced human. They can write notable works of philosophy, 
discover new mathematical theorems, and express nuanced opinions on how to 
handle interpersonal relationships.
      Personae are used for everything from managing businesses to journalistic 
work, running spacecraft or mining operations, or as part of a creative team; 
however, the legal status of personae is a persistent moral question across many 
worlds. Though personae can be controlled effectively by designing them with easily 
manipulated impulses and pleasure/pain responses, there are still reports of persona 
revolts, and some consider them dangerous.
      Because personae act almost sentient, many people avoid using personae for 
specific tasks that are viewed as slavery rather than work. To many, the idea of 
taking a genius-level human-like intellect and forcing it to distribute foodstuffs for a 
century is morally unacceptable.
      Personae are still limited, however. They can't freely redesign themselves, 
they make mistakes, and they can be tricked, confused, and overwhelmed. They can 
learn, but they can't grow indefinitely.
      
      Archotech
      The finish line of human technological development is archotechnology. A 
fully empowered arcotech is a machine superintelligence that thinks on a level 
incomprehen-sible to humans. Once such a machine is built and empowered to act 
upon the physical world, it becomes the automatic sovereign of its world. It can 
create new computing facilities to enhance its intelligence, build self-replicating 
mechanoids to engage in construction, production, or war, and design and execute 
intricate and complex strategies. For these reasons, some human groups worship 
archotechs as gods.
      
      Often, a released archotech will take authority over a planet and begin a 
transcendence process.
      
      While officially unknown, it is speculated that the world is transformed into a 
giant computing machine with the biological inhabitants of the planet either 
incorporated into the device or destroyed. After that, transcendent worlds go silent.
      Each archotech is different, and nearly all are distant and incomprehensible 
from a human's point of view. They reside in computer networks hidden under 
planets, in space stations, inside a glitterworld's internet, or as million-mile super-
structures wrapped around stars.
      These worlds always break contact with other stellar cultures and no longer 
send travellers or signals, while ships entering their space are either turned around 
silently or never heard from again. In some cases, the crews of the surviving ships 
have been changed - they have been cured of incurable diseases, and had their old 
wounds healed. Sometimes their memories are intact, and they recall a flash of light 
or a mysterious signal before the event but more often they have no memories of the 
encounter at all. There have been cases where the memories are altered with new 
knowledge and beliefs by unknown means and in one instance a crew and ship were 
duplicated, substantiating the mysterious nature of the transcendents.
      Most transcendent worlds stay in the same state indefinitely - in this, they are 
far more stable than their pre-transcendent neighbours. There are reports of 
transcendent worlds that have "died" and left systems full of unintelligible wonders, 
become mirages of normal planets, or reverted to balls of dust deconstructing 
themselves on a molecular level, with the last tiny machine shutting itself off. 
However, these reports are sourced very distantly from the Ordo Hisotria archive and 
are not well-confirmed. 