
      INTERSTELLAR TRAVEL
      Interstellar travel is much more difficult than interplanetary travel: the 
distances between the planets in the solar system are typically measured in standard 
astronomical units (AU)-whereas the distances between stars are typically 
hundreds of thousands of AU, and usually expressed in light years. Because of this 
some combination of great speed (some percentage of the speed of light) and huge 
travel time (lasting from years to millennia) was required.
      When humanity first started their space travel journey, these speeds were far 
beyond what their spacecraft propulsion devices could provide. Furthermore, the 
speeds required for interstellar travel also meant that collisions with any space dust 
or gas could produce very dangerous effects.
      A number of widely differing strategies have been proposed to deal with these 
problems, ranging from giant arks that would carry entire societies and ecosystems 
very slowly, to microscopic space probes. Many different propulsion systems have 
been proposed to give spacecraft the required speeds to cross interstellar space: 
these range from different forms of nuclear propulsion, to beamed energy methods 
that would require megascale engineering projects, to methods based on speculative 
physics.
      Johnson-Tanaka Drive
      Using various technological developments from numerous theories and 
postulates, both proven and refuted, the Johnson-Tanaka Drive was created to allow 
space travel to distant solar systems at a significant fraction of the time, becoming 
arguably one of the most important inventions in the development of humanity as it 
allowed their expansion beyond the Sol solar system.
      In order for the ship to be able to reach relativistic speeds without the need for 
transporting impossible amounts of mass for reactionary thrust, a method of 
acceleration was needed that would both adhere to conservation laws and only 
require what would be the only renewable form of energy during space travel, which 
was electricity. The development of nuclear power up until that point allowed for the 
construction of a reactor module, consisting of a miniaturized nuclear fission reactor 
and the required amount of radiator heat sinks that would be needed to dump waste 
heat in the vacuum of space.
      By combining the speculative warp drive idea, Alcubierre drive, 
electromagnetic propulsion drive and photon rockets, the basis of the JT-Drive was 
formulated.
      The existence of exotic particles allows a machine to 
      create a configurable energy-density field of negative mass, allowing the ship 
to essentially fall in its desired direction without violating physical laws by shifting 
space around a certain area. These exotic particles allow the JT-Drive to tap into 
dark energy and dark mass, which is required to allow an object of positive-mass to 
reach speeds equal to the speed of light by creating a field of negative-mass.
      In order to accelerate - and then decelerate - to the required speeds for space 
travel within a reasonable time-frame, a variation of a photon rocket was created in 
order to transfer momentum to nearby stars via precisely-aligned "beams" of 
momentum. This is done instantly, moment-to-moment, using virtual exotic particles 
similar in effect to quantum entanglement and is only possible through the computing 
capabilities of a persona core. Without this momentum transfer, the ship would not 
be able to achieve the relativistic speeds necessary in order to engage the warp 
drive. While there are concerns that prolonged exposure to "beams of momentum" 
will force stars to veer off-course, the mass of stars allow it to "absorb" large 
amounts of momen-tum without incident and any regular back-and-forth travel 
effectively eliminates any such transfer.
      The remaining energy from the reactor - after all necessary power has gone 
into powering the AI core and habitation modules - is used to create packets of 
ionised gas (plasma) which in turn power magnetic coils that give the ship propulsion 
via magnetohydrodynamics. It is vitally important that the plasma is contained and 
that the enormous amounts of heat it produces does not interact with the drive itself, 
as such it is incorporated within the reactor and requires a large amount of time to 
reach the required energy levels. For larger ships, the nuclear reactor can be 
switched out from fission reaction to fusion reaction.
      
      In order to get the ship into an area of space where momentum exchange can 
occur in the ?rst place, a variation of an electromagnetic propulsion drive was 
developed - more popularly known as an impulse drive.
      
      The following are excerpts from recovered audio logs kept by Dr. Dave 
Johnson during his development of the JT-Drive alongside Dr. Aiko Tanaka:
      
      Log File 002
      This is Dr. Dave Johnson, log entry 002 - development of Project Starbound. 
April 23rd, 2351. My request for more computing equipment was approved by the 
Sponsors and was delivered today. Workers spent all day installing the new servers, 
so Dr. Tanaka and I were unable to achieve much progress. The size of the 
machine, designated AT3NA, is incredible and requires an entire floor to house all 
the machinery, thankfully an interaction console is being provided in order to interact 
with it without too much back and forth. It seems that construction will still continue 
for at least a week, so we will continue on compiling all the relevant research before 
we start processing. Dr. Johnson, signing off.
      Log File 004
      This is Dr. Dave Johnson, log entry 004 - development of Project Starbound. 
June 16th, 2351. The new computing system is an absolute godsend, we're already 
progressing much faster than we thought we could and very little time is needed to 
simulate and compile our data. Most of what we had has been discarded as 
physically impossible, although some of the more unusual and exotic ideas are still 
being considered if we can just figure out how to get what we need. Numerous exotic 
particles are being considered and tested in the simulations, even going so far as 
using quantum gravity and quantum entanglement in order to skirt past laws of 
relativity. Needless to say, Dr. Tanaka and I have been far too excited about our 
progress to get much sleep and haven't left the facility in over a week, so we got 
some beds after putting in a request alongside some cooking and hygiene facilities. 
Dr. Johnson, signing off.
      Log File 007
      This is Dr. Dave Johnson, log entry 007 - development of Project Starbound. 
September 2nd, 2351. We've isolated three separate theories that will form the basis 
for the Device. By "we", I'm including AT3NA - Athena, as we call her - because of 
how vital she's been. What Dr. Tanaka and I would have discarded earlier as simply 
impossible, Athena managed to prove possible by finding actual existing exotic 
particles that function exactly the way we need them. We... I... I don't exactly know 
how such a convenience exists, but we've been so desperate to provide something 
tangible for the Sponsors that we're dedicated by this point. It'll need a specific sort 
of energy source to work alongside, but Athena's already drawn up schematics. We 
might actually be able to pull this off. Dr. Johnson, signing off.
      Log File 011
      This is Dr. Dave Johnson, log entry... 011, I think - develop-ment of Project 
Starbound. March 1st, 2352. Athena... claims that she can develop some... thing 
that can "create" a temporary exotic particle but she won't tell me how. The design is 
incredibly simplistic when you look at it but I don't understand... I could swear that I 
didn't know before but after seeing it it's like I've always known. Dr. Tanaka's been 
acting more erratic lately, I don't think she's been getting enough sleep. I can't even 
remember the last time I saw daylight... *audio trails off before cutting out*
      Log File 012
      This is... this is Dr. Johnson. Log entry... 12? Development of Project 
Starbound. Dr. Tanaka and I have had a row and we're now sleeping on opposite 
ends of the facility. She claims that the drive is not our creation, that Athena is the 
one developing it and just helping in keeping the power on. I mean, the Device is 
literally called the Johnson-Tanaka Drive on the schematics sent for prototype 
manufacturing. I think she just needs to cool down and get some fresh air, so I sent 
in a request for an annual leave on her behalf. Dr. Johnson, signing off.
      Log File 013
      Final Log - Development of Project Starbound. August 1st 2352. Dr. Tanaka 
and Dr. Johnson have finished their employment contract on the development of the 
device, dubbed the Johnson-Tanaka Drive. Unfortunately they have been detained 
due to the disappearance of the Processing Unit AT3NA alongside a prototype Drive 
module. They will be questioned to determine their involvement in the proceedings. 
This is Manager Hal, declaring Project Starbound as a success.
      
      Cryptosleep Technology
      Desperately sought after by wealthy billionaires during the 21st century as a 
way to achieve eternal life, cryptosleep technology was a further development from 
the more primitive cryosleep technology which simply lowered the temperature of the 
recipient without any real thought put into reversing the process later without 
expensive reanimation equipment. Cryptosleep took this one step further and also 
incorporated methods of reanimation into the machinery, additionally including 
numerous on-board machinery that carefully ensures no damage occurs during 
either the procedure or the suspension.
      Cryptosleep Sarcophagi
      Cryptosleep sarcophagi are self-powered modules that require the recipient to 
be carefully inserted and hooked up to various parts of the machine before it is 
sealed and the process begins. The machinery takes over many functions of the 
body's organs - such as the heart, kidneys and stomach - preventing the body from 
atrophying and maintaining an extremely low metabolic process. Without this 
function, the body would no longer be able to resume normal function after less than 
a decade of suspension. Cryptosleep pods are a cheaper variant that need only to 
be used once, rather than being able to be used multiple times.
      When it is time for the recipient to wake up, they are brought up to speed 
through the injection of numerous chemicals - such as hormones and adrenaline - so 
they can immediately function again. The recovery process however does involve 
their body needing time to adapt to their natural organs again and achieve a stable 
metabolic process. This typically results in difficulty staying awake and aware, as 
well as vomiting. After a few hours the subject should be back to normal functionality, 
regardless if they were suspended for an hour or a century.
      Cryptosleep Suspender
      The advantages of cryptosleep became a huge advantage to the medical 
industry - specifically for clients who could afford the enormous fees - as a variant 
was developed that allowed the machine to assist the body in recovery from 
illnesses or wounds by temporarily augmenting their body's natural functions. By 
reducing the strain the body would otherwise experience, patients are capable of 
recovering - sometimes even faster - from injuries that would have otherwise meant 
their death in a regular hospital bed. However, due to the assistance of the machine, 
once the patient leaves the bed they become drowsy as their organs try to resume 
regular functionality - albeit to a lesser extent compared to complete cryptosleep.
Humanity in Space
      The lightspeed barrier separates the planets and humanity like never before. 
Because travel times are so long, planets tend to be very disconnected from each 
other socially and technologically. The next star over could experience a catastrophic 
war, and you wouldn't even know until ten years later when the news reports arrive. 
If you're unlucky, you'd have already launched a journey towards that now-destroyed 
planet in a ship that cannot turn around.
      Many attempts have been made to create pan-galactic empires and republics. 
And some have worked, for a time. In the core worlds, an old, stable culture can 
create an interstellar empire of a few systems. But there are no great galactic 
empires stretching across the galaxy, for the same reason that no ancient empire of 
earth held more than a sixth of the planet: one cannot govern people who are years 
distant by all means of travel and communication.
      So most people never travel between stars, and if they do, they do it once or 
twice, because each journey means leaving behind a life that you cannot return to for 
decades at least. With a few exceptions, each star system is essentially on its own.
      During the early space exploration period, many saw technological progress 
as an inexorable fact of life. It is not. Given enough time, nearly every planetary 
culture undergoes a natural disaster, plague, war, or cultural upheaval that knocks 
millennia off its development, or diverts it into another state entirely.
      Many planets are mired in medieval-level squabbles, and stay locked at 
Malthusian population limits for thousands of years at a time. Some develop to an 
early-industrial level and then find themselves stuck by an ideological opposition to 
technology, a lack of resources, or constant war. The nuclear age is a brutal test for 
every world. Roughly half of cultures "bomb themselves back to the stone age" within 
50 years of developing atomic energy (to use an expression that pops up surprisingly 
frequently on worlds in this developmental stage). After the atomic bomb came the 
challenges of commoditized bioengineering, microscopic mechanites, joywires, hex-
cell energy storage, and AI persona, each of which have led to the destruction of 
thousands of peoples.
      Some planets choose not to risk these perils. Having studied the records of 
the Ordo Historia, a growing number of worlds instead restrict themselves to pre-
nuclear technology. Some even succeed, for a few centuries. But even these 
attempts at luddism often fail eventually when some minority gains power by 
exploiting proscribed technologies.
      
      The vast gulfs of space and time between the stars leave individual worlds 
vulnerable to regression. 