
      FACTIONS
      Humanity has always been curious about outer space; there was much 
wonderment about the bizarre alien races they may encounter in their travels. By the 
year 5500AD, that curiosity had been sated - the planets orbiting the stars that were 
once gazed at with wonder were terraformed with humanity's own survival in mind. 
However, almost every single encounter with another sapient species has proven to 
be Terran with genetic or cosmetic alterations. Any planet that may have seemed 
foreign and new in the past has now been homogenized to suit the true aliens - the 
humans.
      Many rimworlds have completed their terraforming process and were 
inhabited by a now long-dead civilization, evidenced by the fact that almost every 
single biome and region has some sort of ancient ruin from the Times Before. The 
only other evidence of this civilised past comes from scavenged relics, dusty 
highways and folklore passed down by generations of tribespeople . These worlds 
have remained untamed as any form of centralization is met with unusual resistance 
from human, insect, or machine threats - very often all at once.
      The reason why such a curious mix of different technology levels, cultures 
and backstories can exist on the same planet is largely thanks to the way space 
travel works. Because humanity is not capable of travelling faster than light, the time 
it can take for ships to travel to another star system takes decades, or even 
centuries. Older ships that use earlier space-flight technology have travelled for 
thousands of years to find they were beaten to the destination by a later model that 
left only decades prior. This has caused complications, schisms, and rival factions 
between people who would otherwise share a common goal due to the vastly 
different knowledge each party has.
      The lack of easy communication or travel has made it possible to have a wild 
variety of cultures and colonies that each try to eke out their own continued survival 
on such a hostile planet. With no formal law enforcement, each group is left to fend 
for themselves unless they seek to maintain relationships with those already 
established. There are even those who refuse diplomacy and only seek to take 
everything from everyone else including their possessions, livestock, organs or lives. 
Life is cruel and harsh here and those wishing to survive must forge their own way or 
perish. The ones who manage to find their way back off the planet are willing to do 
whatever it takes to leave.
      Crash landed independent space refugees - the majority of those who begin 
their lives in the Rim - who wish to make a life for themselves on a rimworld need to 
be aware that a large enough presence can draw attention from more than just 
competing groups of humans, however. Any successful enterprise will always attract 
the attention of larger predators, such as ancient mechanoids designed to annihilate 
anything that begins to resemble civilization or technological progress and wild 
insectoids that retaliate furiously against any transgressors who disturb their 
slumber. 
      Tribes & Savages
      Any colony that is composed of nomads that rely on primitive tools and 
weapons is considered a tribe. Typically there is a lack of technological progress 
because of the absence of a uniformly accepted language system or comprehensive 
written word. Most of the history taught by these tribes are passed on through oral 
traditions, told around campfires at night by someone entrusted with the knowledge 
of their elders. This lack of technology should not be scoffed at because tribes have 
been capable of surviving for untold years without many amenities most modern 
people consider "essential".
      While tribespeople have met people from more technologically advanced 
cultures, there is either a reluctance or outright refusal to develop further. For some 
tribes this may be due to their current way of life being more than sufficient but for 
others it might have been technology that caused their ancestors' downfall. Some 
even purposefully try to shun wealth and technology by remaining on the move in 
order to avoid attracting the attention of the great blood machines sent by the Gods. 
Whatever their reason, they are very untrusting of outsiders and generally more 
accepting of those who follow a similar way of life.
      Occasionally a tribe will settle down into a semi-permanent location, 
constructing various huts and bridges from locally sourced organic material. It is in 
such places that the joys of harsh but simple living start to shine. Shacks are built 
next to each other, with some housing many bedrolls for communal living and 
warmth, while hunters are sent out regularly to bring back their spoils to be 
processed into meat and leather. The meat is combined with the food crops to make 
pemmican, a great trading commodity and an excellent method of expanding their 
larder reserves.
      
      Social activities
      Numerous methods of social bonding are also made, such as hoopstones, 
Game of Ur boards, outdoor campfires and simple dinner halls.
      
      Swathes of farmland are set up to harvest various crops, including healroot - 
typically referred by tribespeople as "Healer's Hand" - both for future trading and for 
their own healthcare.
      
      Although capable of peaceful moments, Tribes are just as familiar with 
warfare - what they lack in manufacturing is more than made up for in sheer 
numbers and fierce desperation. Primitive tools and weapons are used to defend 
their homes and raid others. While some of the more capable hunters are armed with 
bows they use regularly, others also take up sharp rocks, clubs, wooden spear 
heads and pottery jars filled with flammable oil when joining the fight. They make 
significant allies for those whom they trust and see as friends, but for those who can't 
or won't see reason, they can be a formidable foe that will refuse to back down until 
their entire culture is destroyed.
      Republics
      For the tribespeople who refuse to be held back by old "superstitions" and 
beliefs, cultural and technological advances were achieved when they decided to 
stay in one place permanently and develop independently from the influence of 
outsiders. In such cases, they are considered to have passed the Neolithic era and 
progressed fully into the Classical era, such as the common portrayal of Romans 
and Greeks in historical textbooks. The development of writing, masonry and a civil 
service has given these people a strong foundation in which to develop a dominant 
and prolific culture.
      
      Their view of outsiders is somewhat disdainful as some ancient grudges are 
never forgotten and are usually ignored unless they believe they would bene?t from 
expanding into the offending territory.
      
      Various city states belong to one of three different republics to which their 
culture originates from, however they are somewhat homogenized from the 
enthusiastic conquering. This expansion of territory has led to the development of 
roadways and numerous advancements such as development of concrete for 
stronger, larger buildings and fundamentals of metal alloys like bronze which in turn 
have led to the development of new armors and weapons for their military. The 
success of their campaigns can be largely attributed to how each republic has 
developed a uniform approach to civil engineering and military deployments.
      Each city is an awesome sight for both visitors and the residents, with 
extravagant stone flooring in the commercial districts that feature public baths and 
daily theaters. The streets are lined with bars that serve plenty of drinks and dried 
meats that can stimulate even the dullest senses. These places also act as gathering 
spots for those wishing to engage in philosophical debate. Further away in the slums 
are numerous facilities for processing dyes and cement, as well as racks for drying 
sweet meats and various tanneries. One can find distinct versions of alcohol brewing 
in almost any district, as every social class has their preferred tastes. Similarly, one 
can always find someone playing an instrument and/or singing - not always well.
      Although their lives involve decadence, their standing armies are not to be 
taken lightly, as they have honed centuries of warfare into an artform. Soldiers are 
trained to fight in standardised facilities, given equipment based on their role and 
training, and are capable of rapidly deploying and setting up defenses and artillery. 
Whilst the republics themselves are somewhat fractured due to the Senate being at 
odds with how they approach governance, anyone should take heed to stay on their 
good side. If they actually manage to unify under a single banner, even those 
technologically more advanced than them would have difficulty taking on their 
endless resources and discipline.
      Kingdoms & Lords
      Whilst most tribes revolve around using wood for most of their structures, 
some of the more forward-thinking decided to take advantage of all the stone that 
was readily available. This led to needing to learn how to cut stone chunks into 
consistent shapes to reduce the labour costs and increase the quality of the walls. 
The development of stonecutting also created interest in outlanders who thought 
they might be able to help things along by providing half-remembered techniques 
from history books. This, along with the tribespeople's own tenacity of survival, lead 
to the development of medieval-era holdings and metal processing.
      Each city or castle is ruled over someone who earned the hereditary title of 
lord - usually from one of the original tribe chiefs or one of the more scrupulous 
outlanders - however these mostly have power comparable to a count or duke and 
are more accurately described as petty lords. Among these, one is selected to 
represent their particular style of governance to outsiders. Due to their advances in 
masonry, metallurgy, and methods of foodstuff preservation, less time is needed for 
growing food or hunting animals. As such, this abundance of free time has led to the 
development of wine and appreciation for the arts. For those without such privileges 
- such as serfs, servants or slaves - they have to till the fields, build the walls and 
work the forges in the name of progress.
      
      Each castle is made of various defensive fortifications such as a primary outer 
wall with towers that contain various workshops or sleeping quarters.
      
       Within the walls are the various fields to grow crops or grapes for fermenting 
and the principal building that houses the dining hall, the food larders, wine cellar, 
material stockpile and the lord's quarters. Alongside exporting art and wine, such 
kingdoms supplement their income with preserved foodstuffs, tailored clothes and 
considerably advanced and intricate metalwork. Even those of the lower social rungs 
enjoy regular hearty meals and peace of mind from both the defensive walls and the 
guards that patrol the yards.
      When it comes to warfare, metallurgy comes into play. The kingdom's military 
typically favour defensive and orderly formations of shielded foot-men, mailed 
knights and fast bowmen. When it comes to entrenched positions they employ 
forward engineers who construct ballista and catapults to pelt the enemy from a 
distance with locally sourced ammunition. Their performance can be rather lackluster 
when going against more advanced enemies but that does not mean they should be 
taken lightly, as they can make reliable allies and are good for annoying those who 
try to curry favour. However, they can be somewhat disappointing trade partners for 
the established colonies because of their limited stock. However, for those struggling 
to survive, their regular supply of tasteful wine, plentiful herbal medicine and 
preserved foodstuffs can mean the difference between life and death.

      Vikings & Clanmen
      Clans are a quasi-evolution of how tribespeople developed by their own 
means whilst also taking advantage of the wealth of others. Their development was 
spurred by living in colder regions where it was easier to maintain stores of meat 
whilst also making it difficult for others to raid. As such, the extra time won from not 
having to worry about growing crops and having cold rooms for hunted animals led 
to further development in apparel, heating and a language that could be carved and 
last environmental damage. It became tradition to have numerous engraved columns 
in important houses tell the story of that tribe's history, as well as the carving of 
runestones at sites of historical importance.
      Due to the harshness of their preferred climate, attacking others for loot 
became a necessity for their development, so the loggers and hunters who were 
used to travelling long distances developed their own methods for raiding and were 
hailed as storytelling heroes upon return to their village. Outsiders are viewed as 
sources of material and village elders consult the raiding parties for opinions 
weighing the profitability of trading versus raiding them. 
      
      This attachment to their culture does also mean that Vikings are very hesitant 
to give up their nomadic heritage, making it difficult to develop further 
technologically.
      
      The construction of a village settlement typically takes a style of motte-and-
bailey as a deterrent to wildlife and anyone foolish enough to attack them. Circular in 
design and primarily made from wood, the outside walls protect any crops that are 
capable of growing in such harsh weather. This has led to a particular relationship 
with bees and their cultivation for honey production, as flowers can grow in almost 
any region. Beehives are treated with reverence and tended by those unable to 
partake in raids. The resulting honey is both kept as a non-perishable food and 
fermented for the ever-popular mead. This ties in to the most important feature of 
any village, namely the stone meat larders and the great feasting hall. Regular feasts 
take place - especially after successful raids - as a celebration of life, bonding 
ceremonies and drunken poetry slams. It is not uncommon to find returning Vikings 
to be found passed out from both alcohol and arguments over storytelling.
      Thanks to the large amounts of leather from hunting and wool from 
domesticated cows that can tolerate the cold, tailoring has taken great leaps 
technologically. Alongside weapons forged from excess metal smelted from useless 
loot, Viking armor is excellently crafted to protect and insulate. Frontline warriors 
wear plate armor and any melee fighter is given a shield, with the exception of some 
of the more brazen characters who rely on protection from the gods and their own 
rage to carry them through even the worst of injuries. While a difficult ally to win over, 
they are a people who can be relied on even in the worst of times, even if they are 
the ones causing it.
      Pirate Bands and Bandits
      Much like how unions formed due to a mutual desire for trade and security, 
pirate bands are composed of outlanders whose primary interest is taking the 
possessions from others - usually with terminal force. Their available technology is 
somewhat difficult to describe as it largely depends on what they have managed to 
successfully pillage from their neighbors. Most pirates have very short life 
expectancies in their pursuit of other people's pleasures - including from those in 
their own group - so there is no need for establishing long term relationships. Any 
"excess stock" is bartered with any trader wise enough to do remote trading from 
orbit in case of any "funny business".
      The relationships with each pirate colony is roughly similar to how each 
individual pirate views each other; it largely boils down to an attitude of "I can always 
kill you tomorrow, so let's raid some other schmuck in the meantime". A pirate band 
involves a larger group that are under a banner of truce, since most are simply 
looking for wealth to gain, be they valuables, organs or slaves, and can take them 
from other people instead. Even regular pirates shun the more hardcore groups, 
such as groups of roving cannibals looking for their next meal on top of everything 
else. Should there be no one left to attack, these gangs would simply devour each 
other until there was nothing left.
      
      Pirate colonies can be broadly described as loose camps made from a variety 
of whatever could be stolen off of someone else. Some pirates try to flex on each 
other with their ill-gotten gains, which only ever works out for them if they're 
competent enough to actually keep them. 
      
      Sometimes slaves can be found in what can generously be described as 
"workshops'' maintaining whatever gear they will be given, ranging from articles of 
clothing to broken generators. The vast majority of the pirates can easily be found 
completely zoned out on their drug and/or alcohol of choice, enjoying the results of 
whatever raid they had managed successfully. These are also the people who will 
readily go out on the next raid once they realize their stash has run dry.
      All raiding made by pirates is for some form of personal gain, unless there is a 
particularly violent boss ordering them around. These characters usually carry the 
best gear, such as power armor and pulse charge weaponry, and are in charge 
because no one else can beat them without tearing at each other's throats for the 
loot. Most pirates have basic gear that they scrounged from randomly discovered 
corpses, but those who have survived raids usually have much better gear. They can 
use a variety of nasty tactics such as sieges, breechings and "house calls'' with drop 
pods and there is no negotiating with such groups, for while most of them are in it for 
the raiding, the rest of them are in it for unbridled murder without consequence.
      
      Outlander Unions
      A gathering of people who have lived on a rimworld for decades or centuries 
are considered Outlanders rather than off-worlders. Not having lived nearly long 
enough or regressed technologically to be considered tribals, groups of outlanders 
typically form together due to mutual goals and trust that drive them forward. 
Compared to when first landing, they have forgotten most of the technology that they 
initially knew, having cast aside anything that wasn't conducive to their survival or 
way of living. It would not be difficult to regain knowledge lost, but most of the time 
there are simply better things to do at that moment.
      To facilitate trade and make living in a lawless place more bearable, a union 
of different settlements may gather together under a single banner. Each settlement 
has their own rules and people, but to outsiders they seem homogeneous in their 
limited dealings. Due to this advantage, the mayor of each colony will actively pursue 
projects with those who share common goals - the most successful mayor being the 
so-called leader, a person the traders and trade ships can easily identify as their 
liaison to the colony. Thus by working together in matters of trade, everyone that 
participates benefits with minimal bloodshed.
      
      Settlements
      While most settlements in an outlander union appear different from each other 
in some shape or form, they can appear similar due to communal technology 
sharing.
      
      Most members will live in barracks with others due to convenience, with some 
of the more successful or hard-working getting more privacy for peace of mind. 
Numerous crafting halls litter the area powered by generators of various types. 
Gardens lead to refrigerators, which in turn lead to kitchens and dining halls, allowing 
simple larder maintenance. During dinners, members gather together after a hard 
day's work, sharing cultural heritage over board games or electronic programs 
picked up from ancient satellites.
      Whilst some unions rely on trade, it would be foolish to assume that even they 
are unfamiliar in the art of war. Some even prefer the opening of communications to 
be gunfire, although they can be made more hospitable given a certain incentive. 
The usage of advanced gunpowder weaponry means they can consistently defend 
themselves at range against armored opponents and for faster movement or surprise 
attacks, they take liberal advantage of drop pods to diversify their attack patterns. 
Although most of the time these attacks are done without coordination with other 
towns, a failed attack is a blow to the entire union's reputation because they equally 
take credit for successful attacks as it can assist with trade and diplomacy. This 
proves that unions are more useful as allies than enemies, as their reputation makes 
trading with them more likely to result in better deals and wares.

      Vaults and Ancients
      Most encounters with people from prior civilizations are from bodies stored in 
cryptosleep tombs, usually raided for their valuables and defended by mechanoids or 
insectoids. There are some hidden places however, where mysterious sounds 
rumble in the deep caverns underneath mountain ranges. Occasional sightings of 
walls glimmering with an unusual sheen that refuses to retain a scratch when 
attempt-ing to break through have also been reported. Some places have myths that 
revolve around a common thread of strange people doing unusual and supernatural 
things that not even psycasting can explain. A few loose-lipped explorers have also 
claimed to have passed through the entrance to these Vaults via massive 
mechanically and hydraulically sealed doors.
      Aspiring archaeologists have noted that these dwellings were constructed 
thousands of years ago by the same people who constructed the defunct highways 
and ancient ruins found randomly in the wild. While most of the machinery that could 
be examined was beyond repair or seemingly provided no function, there was proof 
they had been intricately and robustly designed to work for millennia without 
maintenance. Derelict and abandoned cryptopods could be found - more advanced 
in design than elsewhere - alongside rather spartan living quarters and 
manufacturing facilities. The Vault exteriors must have been extremely costly but it 
seems the purpose of it all was to store people away for many centuries until a 
certain time had arrived. However, what that time actually was for could not be 
determined.
      There was a single unusual sighting of barely functional equipment, found in 
what was hypothesized as a medical bay for experimentation. Rudimentary 
machinery similar to giltterworld bio-sculpting was apparently used to perform 
genetic modifications on living people. The design appeared to lack many benefits of 
advanced technologies and seemed rather dangerous - according to a former 
glitterworld surgeon - leading to a conclusion that it was a last desperate attempt to 
improve the dwindling residents for the "awaited time".
      Most Ancients that are released alive from randomly discovered cryptopods 
are delirious, either attacking the rescuer or in a state of confused wandering. No 
answers can be gained from questioning them, as they were either unaware or 
simply refused to tell no matter the circumstance. Anyone lucky enough to come 
across a functional Vault specimen should take caution against gaining access 
because after such a long wait the reception might not be a warm one.
      
      Megacorporations and Suits
      Amongst all of the different factions that fight for their own slice of a rimworld, 
there is one in particular for whom the planet is nothing more than another 
opportunity to make money. For megacorporations with specialties in genetic 
engineering, the chaotic nature of backwater terraforming projects is the perfect 
opportunity to create a tourist trap using excessively dangerous and extinct 
megafauna. The schemes they partake in involve manipulating the locals into signing 
constrictive contracts and do all of the heavy labour whilst thinking they're getting a 
great deal.
      In making these arkologies whilst also ensuring a constant stream of cash, 
extremely advanced technology is used to manufacture bespoke, single-use 
genomes that can only be used in the company's own embryo synthesizer. Due to 
the corporation's intent to make as much profit as possible, they don't bother wasting 
their time with those who they think aren't up to the task or would be troublesome in 
case of betrayal by planning to have as many competent contractors as possible to 
keep competition healthy and their costs low. It usually ends up working so well that 
those contracted don't realise that they willingly engage in a rat race that only gets 
worse the harder they compete, all while making their overlords richer than ever.
      To maintain a strong planetside presence most of the parks are handled 
through security drones, mechanoids and armed park personnel. Primarily, 
communication with the space stations housing the megacorps are done through 
comms consoles using low-level personnel or disinterested secretaries. Some minor 
facilities must be present, as there are very few sightings of shuttles travelling back 
and forth to the orbiting stations. A few reports have been made of people wandering 
lost outside of an arkology's boundaries clutching a bundle of documents with a 
haunted look in their eye and muttering that they just made a deal with a devil.
      For those who don't want to compete and instead strike out against the 
corporations, a considerable amount of thought should go in before they attempt 
such a thing. Even completely ignoring all of the contractors who very much will not 
appreciate someone meddling with - what they consider - a good deal, a megacorp 
represents, above all, profit margins. Any threat to the bottom line is dealt with swiftly 
and mercilessly, with the corporation sometimes spending more than they could 
possibly gain just to send the message that no one messes with them and gets away 
with it. However, if anyone manages to steal from them and succeed, they will earn a 
begrudging amount of respect and considerable interest in those wanting to take 
from a considerably weaker target. Sometimes the winning move is not to play. 